<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html lang="EN" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/><title>MINI-DICTIONARY</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../Style/media.css"/></head><body><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="897" id="pagebreak_897"/><section xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" role="doc-glossary" epub:type="glossary"><a id="gls00001"/><div id="CN"></div><h1 class="chaptitle" id="B9780443107795170010">MINI-DICTIONARY</h1><section><a id="gl0010"/><section><a id="gs0010"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0010">A</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls0010"><span class="glossterm"><b>Abdomen</b> (AB-do-men):</span> <span class="glossdef">Space in the body below the chest containing organs such as the liver, stomach, gallbladder, and intestines; abdominal cavity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0015"><span class="glossterm"><b>Abdominal cavity</b> (ab-DOM-ih-nal KAV-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Space in the body below the chest containing organs such as the liver, stomach, gallbladder, and intestines; abdomen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0020"><span class="glossterm"><b>Abdominal ultrasonography</b> (ab-DOM-in-al ul-trah-so-NOG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sound waves are beamed into the abdomen and produce an image of abdominal organs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0025"><span class="glossterm"><b>Abdominocentesis</b> (ab-dom-in-o-sen-TE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Puncture to remove fluid from the abdomen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0030"><span class="glossterm"><b>Abdominoplasty</b> (ab-DOM-in-o-plas-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of the abdomen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0035"><span class="glossterm"><b>Abduction</b> (ab-DUK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Movement away from the midline of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0040"><span class="glossterm"><b>Abductor</b> (ab-DUK-tor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Muscle that draws a limb away from the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0045"><span class="glossterm"><b>Abnormal</b> (ab-NOR-mal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to away from the rule or order.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0050"><span class="glossterm"><b>Abortion</b> (ah-BOR-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Termination of pregnancy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0055"><span class="glossterm"><b>Abruptio placentae</b> (ah-BRUP-se-o plah-SEN-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Premature separation of the normally implanted placenta.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0060"><span class="glossterm"><b>Abscess</b> (AB-ses):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cavity containing pus surrounded by inflamed tissue; usually the result of localized infection.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0065"><span class="glossterm"><b>Absence seizure</b> (AB-sens SE-zhur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Minor form of seizure, consisting of momentary clouding of consciousness and loss of awareness.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0070"><span class="glossterm"><b>Absorption</b> (ab-SORP-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Passage of materials through the walls of the small intestine into the bloodstream.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0075"><span class="glossterm"><b>Accommodation</b> (ah-kom-o-DA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Normal adjustment of the eye to focus on objects from far to near.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0080"><span class="glossterm"><b>ACE inhibitor</b> (ACE in-HIB-ih-tor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that lowers blood pressure by dilating blood vessels (antihypertensive).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0085"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acetabular</b> (ah-seh-TAB-u-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the acetabulum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0090"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acetabulum</b> (ah-seh-TAB-u-lum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rounded depression, or socket, in the pelvis that joins the femur, forming the hip joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0095"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acetone</b> (AS-eh-tohn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Type of ketone body formed when fatty acids are broken down in the liver.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0100"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acetylcholine</b> (a-se-til-KO-leen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Neurotransmitter chemical released at the ends of nerve cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0105"><span class="glossterm"><b>Achalasia</b> (ak-ah-LA-zhah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Failure of the lower esophageal sphincter muscle (LES) to relax.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0110"><span class="glossterm"><b>Achlorhydria</b> (a-chlor-HI-dre-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Absence of hydrochloric acid from the gastric juice.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0115"><span class="glossterm"><b>Achondroplasia</b> (a-kon-dro-PLA-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inherited disorder in which the bones of the arms and legs fail to grow to normal size; achondroplastic dwarfism.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0120"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acne</b> (AK-ne):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic papular and pustular eruption of the skin with increased production of sebum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0125"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acoustic</b> (ah-KOOS-tik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to hearing.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0130"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acoustic neuroma</b> (ah-KOOS-tik nu-RO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Benign tumor arising from the acoustic nerve.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="898" id="pagebreak_898"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0135"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome</b> (ah-KWI-erd im-u-no-deh-FIH-shen-se SIN-drohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Depression or suppression of the immune system after exposure to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV); marked by opportunistic infections, secondary neoplasms, and neurologic problems.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0140"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acromegaly</b> (ak-ro-MEG-ah-le):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enlargement of extremities due to increased secretion of growth hormone from the pituitary gland after puberty.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0145"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acromion</b> (ak-RO-me-on):</span> <span class="glossdef">Outward extension of the shoulder blade forming the point of the shoulder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0150"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acrophobia</b> (ak-ro-FO-be-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fear of heights.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0155"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acute</b> (uh-KYOOT):</span> <span class="glossdef">Characterized by severe symptoms and a short course of illness.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0160"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acute coronary syndromes</b> (uh-KYOOT KOR-o-nair-e SIN-drohms):</span> <span class="glossdef">Consequences of plaque rupture in coronary arteries; unstable angina and myocardial infarction (heart attack).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0165"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acute lymphoid leukemia</b> (uh-KYOOT LIMF-oyd lu-KE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant, immature lymphocytes (lymphoblasts) multiply in the blood, bone marrow, and lymphatic system.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0170"><span class="glossterm"><b>Acute myeloid leukemia</b> (uh-KYOOT MI-eh-loyd lu-KE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant, immature granulocytes (myeloblasts) multiply in the bone marrow and bloodstream.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0175"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adaptive immunity</b> (ah-DAP-tiv ih-MU-nih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">The ability to recognize and remember specific antigens and mount an attack on them.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0180"><span class="glossterm"><b>Addiction</b> (ah-DIK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Physical and psychologic dependence on and craving for a drug.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0185"><span class="glossterm"><b>Addison disease</b> (AD-ih-son dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hypofunctioning of the adrenal cortex; decreased secretion of aldosterone and cortisol.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0190"><span class="glossterm"><b>Additive action</b> (AD-it-ive AK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug action in which the combination of two similar drugs is equal to the sum of the effects of each.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0195"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adduction</b> (ah-DUK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Movement toward the midline of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0200"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adductor</b> (ah-DUK-tor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Muscle that draws a limb toward the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0205"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adenitis</b> (ah-deh-NI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of a gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0210"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adenocarcinoma</b> (ah-deh-no-kar-sih-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cancerous tumor of glandular tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0215"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adenohypophysis</b> (ah-den-o-hi-POF-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Anterior lobe of the pituitary gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0220"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adenoid hypertrophy</b> (AH-den-oyd hi-PER-tro-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increased development of adenoids.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0225"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adenoidectomy</b> (ah-den-oyd-EK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of the adenoids.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0230"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adenoids</b> (AH-deh-noydz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small masses of lymphatic tissue in the throat, close to the nasal (nose) passageway.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0235"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adenoma</b> (ah-deh-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor of a gland; benign tumor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0240"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adenopathy</b> (ah-deh-NOP-ah-the):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease condition of a “gland”; actually refers to disease of lymph nodes; lymphadenopathy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0245"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adipocyte</b> (AH-dih-po-site):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fat cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0250"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adipose</b> (AH-dih-pohz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to fat.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0255"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adjuvant chemotherapy</b> (AD-ju-vant ke-mo-THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment of disease with drugs to assist or enhance after primary treatment.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0260"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adnexa of the uterus</b> (ad-NEK-sah of the U-ter-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Accessory structures associated with the uterus; fallopian tubes and ovaries.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0265"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adrenal cortex</b> (ah-DRE-nal KOR-teks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Outer section (cortex) of each adrenal gland; secretes cortisol, aldosterone, and sex hormones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0270"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adrenal glands</b> (ah-DRE-nal glanz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Endocrine glands above the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0275"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adrenal medulla</b> (ah-DRE-nal me-DU-lah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inner section (medulla) of each adrenal gland; secretes epinephrine and norepinephrine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0280"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adrenal virilism</b> (ah-DRE-nal VIR-il-izm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive secretion of adrenal androgens.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0285"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adrenalectomy</b> (ah-dre-nal-EK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of an adrenal gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0290"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adrenaline</b> (ah-DREH-nah-lin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla; increases heart rate and blood pressure. Also called epinephrine.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="899" id="pagebreak_899"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0295"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adrenocorticotropic hormone</b> (ah-dre-no-kor-tih-ko-TROP-ik HOR-mone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Secretion from the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland; stimulates the adrenal cortex; ACTH.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0300"><span class="glossterm"><b>Adrenocorticotropin</b> (ah-dre-no-kor-tih-ko-TRO-pin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Adrenocorticotropic hormone; ACTH.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0305"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aerosol</b> (AIR-o-sol):</span> <span class="glossdef">Particles of drug suspended in air and inhaled.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0310"><span class="glossterm"><b>Affect</b> (AF-ekt):</span> <span class="glossdef">External expression of emotion; emotional response.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0315"><span class="glossterm"><b>Afferent nerves</b> (AF-er-ent nervz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Carry nervous impulses <i>toward</i> the brain and spinal cord; sensory nerves.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0320"><span class="glossterm"><b>Agoraphobia</b> (ah-gor-ah-FO-be-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fear of open spaces; an anxiety disorder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0325"><span class="glossterm"><b>Akinetic</b> (a-kih-NET-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to loss or absence of voluntary movement.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0330"><span class="glossterm"><b>Albinism</b> (AL-bih-niz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of skin deficient in pigment (melanin).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0335"><span class="glossterm"><b>Albumin</b> (al-BU-min):</span> <span class="glossdef">Major protein found in blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0340"><span class="glossterm"><b>Albuminuria</b> (al-bu-min-U-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Protein in the urine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0345"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aldosterone</b> (al-DOS-teh-rone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the adrenal cortex; regulates salt and water balance.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0350"><span class="glossterm"><b>Alkylating agents</b> (AL-kih-la-ting A-jents):</span> <span class="glossdef">Synthetic chemicals used in treatment of cancer. They interfere with DNA synthesis and cell division to prevent cancer cells from increasing in number.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0355"><span class="glossterm"><b>Allergen</b> (AL-er-jen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Substance capable of causing a specific hypersensitivity reaction; a type of antigen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0360"><span class="glossterm"><b>Allergy</b> (AL-er-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal hypersensitivity acquired by exposure to an antigen (allergen).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0365"><span class="glossterm"><b>Alopecia</b> (al-o-PE-she-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Partial or complete lack of hair.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0370"><span class="glossterm"><b>Alopecia areata</b> (al-o-PE-she-ah ar-e-AT-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Autoimmune disease in which hair falls out in round patches.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0375"><span class="glossterm"><b>Alveolar</b> (al-ve-O-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to an alveolus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0380"><span class="glossterm"><b>Alveolus; <i>pl.</i> alveoli</b> (al-VE-o-lus; al-VE-o-li):</span> <span class="glossdef">Individualized section of an air sac in the lung.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0385"><span class="glossterm"><b>Alzheimer disease</b> (ALZ-hi-mer dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Brain disorder marked by gradual and progressive mental deterioration (dementia), personality changes, and impairment of daily functioning.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0390"><span class="glossterm"><b>Amblyopia</b> (am-ble-O-pe-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Decreased visual acuity often in a single eye and appearing in children; lazy eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0395"><span class="glossterm"><b>Amenorrhea</b> (a-men-o-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Absence of menstrual flow.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0400"><span class="glossterm"><b>Amino acids</b> (ah-ME-no AS-idz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small building blocks of proteins, released when proteins are digested.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0405"><span class="glossterm"><b>Amnesia</b> (am-NE-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Loss of memory.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0410"><span class="glossterm"><b>Amniocentesis</b> (am-ne-o-sen-TE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Puncture with a needle to withdraw fluid from within the amniotic sac.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0415"><span class="glossterm"><b>Amnion</b> (AM-ne-on):</span> <span class="glossdef">Innermost membrane surrounding the embryo and fetus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0420"><span class="glossterm"><b>Amniotic fluid</b> (am-ne-OT-ik FLU-id):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fluid contained within the amniotic sac surrounding the embryo and fetus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0425"><span class="glossterm"><b>Amphetamine</b> (am-FET-ah-meen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Central nervous system stimulant.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0430"><span class="glossterm"><b>Amylase</b> (AM-ih-layz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enzyme that digests (breaks down) starches into simpler substances (such as sugars).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0440"><span class="glossterm"><b>Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis</b> (a-mi-o-TRO-fik LA-ter-al skleh-RO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Degenerative disorder of motor neurons in the spinal cord and brainstem leading to progressive muscular paralysis; Lou Gehrig disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0445"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anabolism</b> (ah-NAB-o-liz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of building up proteins in cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0450"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anal fistula</b> (A-nal FIS-tu-la):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal tube-like passageway near the anus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0455"><span class="glossterm"><b>Analgesia</b> (an-al-JE-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Absence of sensitivity to pain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0460"><span class="glossterm"><b>Analgesic</b> (an-al-JE-sik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that relieves pain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0465"><span class="glossterm"><b>Analysis</b> (ah-NAL-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Separation of a substance into various parts.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0470"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anaphylaxis</b> (an-ah-fih-LAK-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Exaggerated hypersensitivity reaction to a previously encountered drug or foreign protein.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0475"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anaplasia</b> (an-ah-PLA-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Loss of differentiation of cells and reversion to a more primitive, unspecialized cell type.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0480"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anastomosis</b> (ah-nas-to-MO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical procedure that creates a new opening between two previously unconnected tubular structures in the body.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="900" id="pagebreak_900"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0485"><span class="glossterm"><b>Androgen</b> (AN-dro-jen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Male hormone secreted by the testes; responsible for developing and maintaining male secondary sex characteristics. Testosterone is an example.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0490"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anemia</b> (ah-NE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition marked by reduction in the number of erythrocytes or in the amount of hemoglobin in blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0495"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anencephaly</b> (an-en-SEF-ah-le):</span> <span class="glossdef">Congenital condition of partial or complete absence of brain matter.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0500"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anesthesia</b> (an-es-THE-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Absence of nervous feeling or sensation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0505"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anesthetic</b> (an-es-THET-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that reduces or eliminates nervous sensation; general and local.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0510"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aneurysm</b> (AN-yoo-rih-zim):</span> <span class="glossdef">Weakening of an arterial wall, which may lead to hemorrhage and cerebrovascular accident (stroke).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0515"><span class="glossterm"><b>Angina</b> (an-JI-nah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chest pain associated with myocardial ischemia (poor blood supply).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0520"><span class="glossterm"><b>Angiogenesis</b> (an-je-o-JEN-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Formation of blood vessels.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0525"><span class="glossterm"><b>Angiogram</b> (AN-je-o-gram):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray record of blood vessels.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0530"><span class="glossterm"><b>Angiography</b> (an-je-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray imaging of blood vessels after injection of contrast material.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0535"><span class="glossterm"><b>Angioplasty</b> (AN-je-o-plas-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of a blood vessel.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0540"><span class="glossterm"><b>Angiotensin II receptor blocker</b> (an-je-o-TEN-sin 2 re-CEP-tor BLOK-er):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that lowers blood pressure by preventing angiotensin from acting on receptors in blood vessels.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0545"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anhidrosis</b> (an-hi-DRO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Absence of sweating.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0550"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anisocoria</b> (an-i-so-KO-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inequality in the size of pupils.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0555"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anisocytosis</b> (an-i-so-si-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inequality in the size of red blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0560"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ankylosing spondylitis</b> (ang-kih-LO-sing spon-dih-LI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic, progressive arthritis with stiffening of joints, primarily of the spine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0565"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ankylosis</b> (ang-kih-LO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Immobility (fusion) of a joint due to disease, injury, or surgical procedure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0570"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anorexia</b> (an-or-EK-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lack of appetite.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0575"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anorexia nervosa</b> (an-o-REK-se-ah ner-VO-sah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Eating disorder of excessive dieting and refusal to maintain a normal body weight.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0580"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anosmia</b> (an-OZ-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Loss of the sense of smell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0585"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anovulatory</b> (an-OV-u-lat-or-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the absence of ovulation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0590"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anoxia</b> (ah-NOK-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Without oxygen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0595"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antacid</b> (ant-AS-id):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that neutralizes acid in the stomach.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0600"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antagonistic action</b> (an-tag-on-NIS-tik AK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Combination of two drugs gives less than the sum of the effects of each together.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0605"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ante cibum</b> (AN-te SE-bum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Before meals; (a.c.).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0610"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anteflexion</b> (an-te-FLEK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bending forward.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0615"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antepartum</b> (an-te-PAR-tum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Before birth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0620"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anterior</b> (an-TE-re-or):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the front portion of the body; ventral.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0625"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anterior chamber</b> (an-TE-re-or CHAYM-ber):</span> <span class="glossdef">Area of the eye behind the cornea and in front of the lens and iris. It contains aqueous humor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0630"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anteroposterior</b> (an-ter-o-pos-TE-re-or):</span> <span class="glossdef">In this AP x-ray view, x-rays travel from an anteriorly placed source to a posteriorly placed detector (x-ray beam passes from the front to the back of the body).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0635"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anthracosis</b> (an-thrah-KO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of coal dust in the lungs; black lung disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0640"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antiandrogen</b> (an-tuh-AN-dro-jen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that blocks the formation of androgens or interferes with their effect in tissues.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0645"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antiarrhythmic</b> (an-tuh-a-RITH-mik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that treats abnormal heart rhythms.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0650"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antibiotic</b> (an-tuh-bi-OT-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chemical substance that has the ability to inhibit or destroy foreign organisms in the body.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="901" id="pagebreak_901"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0655"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antibody</b> (AN-tuh-bod-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Protein made by white blood cells in response to foreign substances (antigens) in the blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0660"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anticoagulant</b> (an-tuh-ko-AG-ul-lant):</span> <span class="glossdef">Substance that prevents blood clotting.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0665"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anticonvulsant</b> (an-tuh-kon-VUL-sant):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that prevents convulsions and seizures.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0670"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antidepressant</b> (an-tuh-de-PRES-ant):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that relieves symptoms of depression.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0675"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antidiabetic</b> (an-tuh-di-ah-BET-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug given to prevent or treat diabetes mellitus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0680"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antidiarrheal</b> (an-tuh-di-ah-RE-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that prevents diarrhea.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0685"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antidiuretic hormone</b> (an-tuh-di-u-RET-ik HOR-mone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pituitary gland hormone that stimulates the kidney to decrease production of urine, preventing excess loss of water. Also called vasopressin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0690"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antidote</b> (AN-tuh-dote):</span> <span class="glossdef">Agent given to counteract an unwanted effect of a drug.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0695"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antiemetic</b> (an-tuh-eh-MET-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that prevents nausea and vomiting.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0700"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antigen</b> (AN-tuh-jen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Foreign substance or toxin (poison) that stimulates the production of an antibody; evokes an immune response.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0705"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antiglobulin test</b> (an-tuh-GLOB-u-lin test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Test for the presence of antibodies that coat and damage erythrocytes; Coombs test.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0710"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antihistamine</b> (an-tuh-HIS-tah-meen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that blocks the action of histamine and helps prevent symptoms of allergy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0715"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antimetabolites</b> (an-tuh-meh-TAB-o-lites):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chemicals that prevent cell division by inhibiting formation of substances necessary to make DNA; used in cancer treatment.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0720"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antimicrobial</b> (an-tuh-mi-KRO-be-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Agent that kills microorganisms or stops their growth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0725"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antimitotics</b> (an-tuh-mi-TOT-iks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs that block mitosis (cell division); used to treat cancer.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0730"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antinauseant</b> (an-tuh-NAW-ze-ant):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that relieves nausea and vomiting; antiemetic.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0735"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antinuclear antibody test</b> (an-tuh-NU-kle-ar AN-tih-bod-e test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Detects an antibody present in serum of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and other autoimmune diseases.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0740"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antiplatelet</b> (an-tuh-PLAYT-let):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that reduces the tendency of platelets to stick together and form a clot.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0745"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antipruritic</b> (an-tuh-pru-RIT-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that acts against itching (pruritus).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0750"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antipyretic</b> (an-tuh-pih-RET-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that lowers fever.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0755"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antisepsis</b> (an-tuh-SEP-sus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Destruction of microorganisms to prevent infection.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0760"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antisocial personality</b> (an-tuh-SO-shal per-son-AL-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Characterized by lack of loyalty or concern for others and lack of moral standards.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0765"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antitoxin</b> (an-tuh-TOX-in):</span> <span class="glossdef">Substance produced against a toxin (poison); an antibody.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0770"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antiulcer</b> (an-tuh-UL-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that inhibits the secretion of acid by cells lining the stomach.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0775"><span class="glossterm"><b>Antiviral</b> (an-tuh-VI-ral):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that acts against viruses such as the herpesvirus and HIV.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0780"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anuria</b> (an-U-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Suppression of urine formation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0785"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anus</b> (A-nus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Opening of the rectum to the outside of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0790"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anxiety disorders</b> (ang-ZI-et-e dis-OR-derz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Characterized by unpleasant tensions, distress, and avoidance behavior; examples are phobias, generalized anxiety disorder, and post-traumatic distress disorder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0795"><span class="glossterm"><b>Anxiolytic</b> (ang-zi-o-LIT-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that relieves anxiety and produces a relaxing effect.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0800"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aorta</b> (a-OR-tah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Largest artery in the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0805"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aortic stenosis</b> (a-OR-tik steh-NO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Narrowing of the aorta.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0810"><span class="glossterm"><b>Apathy</b> (AH-pah-the):</span> <span class="glossdef">Absence of emotions; lack of interest or emotional involvement.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0815"><span class="glossterm"><b>Apex of the heart</b> (A-pex of the hart):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lower tip of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0820"><span class="glossterm"><b>Apex of the lung</b> (A-pex of the lung):</span> <span class="glossdef">Uppermost portion of the lung.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0825"><span class="glossterm"><b>Apgar score</b> (AP-gar score):</span> <span class="glossdef">System of scoring an infant’s physical condition at 1 and 5 minutes after birth; assesses heart rate, respiration, color, muscle tone and response to stimuli.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="902" id="pagebreak_902"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0830"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aphakia</b> (ah-FA-ke-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Absence of the lens of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0835"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aphasia</b> (ah-FA-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inability to speak; language function is impaired due to injury to the cerebral cortex.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0840"><span class="glossterm"><b>Apheresis</b> (ah-feh-RE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Withdrawal and separation of blood elements.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0845"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aphthous stomatitis</b> (AF-thus sto-mah-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the mouth with small ulcers; canker sores.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0850"><span class="glossterm"><b>Apical</b> (A-pih-kal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the tip of an organ.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0855"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aplastic anemia</b> (a-PLAS-tik ah-NE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Failure of blood cell production in the bone marrow.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0860"><span class="glossterm"><b>Apnea</b> (AP-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Without breathing.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0865"><span class="glossterm"><b>Apocrine sweat gland</b> (AP-o-krin swet gland):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of the large dermal exocrine glands located in the axilla and genital areas. It secretes sweat that, in action with bacteria, is responsible for human body odor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0870"><span class="glossterm"><b>Apoptosis</b> (a-pop-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Programmed cell death.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0875"><span class="glossterm"><b>Appendectomy</b> (ap-en-DEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal or excision of the appendix.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0880"><span class="glossterm"><b>Appendicitis</b> (ap-en-dih-SI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the appendix.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0885"><span class="glossterm"><b>Appendix</b> (ap-EN-diks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small, tube-like organ connected to the beginning of the large intestine (cecum). It is located in the right lower quadrant (RLQ) of the abdomen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0890"><span class="glossterm"><b>Apraxia</b> (a-PRAK-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inability to perform purposeful acts or manipulate objects.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0895"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aqueous humor</b> (AH-kwe-us HU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fluid produced by the ciliary body and found in the anterior chamber of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0900"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arachnoid membrane</b> (ah-RAK-noyd MEM-brayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Middle layer of the meninges that surrounds the brain and spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0905"><span class="glossterm"><b>Areola</b> (air-e-O-lah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Dark, pigmented area surrounding the breast nipple.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0910"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aromatase inhibitor</b> (ah-RO-mah-tace in-HIB-it-or):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that reduces estrogen in the blood by blocking the enzyme aromatase.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0915"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arrhythmia</b> (a-RITH-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Irregular or abnormal heartbeat; literally, without rhythm.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0920"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arterial anastomosis</b> (ar-TE-re-al ah-nas-to-MO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">New surgical connection between two arteries.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0925"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arteriography</b> (ar-TE-re-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray recording of arteries; contrast is injected.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0930"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arteriole</b> (ar-TE-re-ohl):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small artery.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0935"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arteriosclerosis</b> (ar-te-re-o-skleh-RO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hardening of an artery with collection of fatty plaque.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0940"><span class="glossterm"><b>Artery</b> (AR-teh-re):</span> <span class="glossdef">Largest type of blood vessel.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0945"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arthralgia</b> (ar-THRAL-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Joint pain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0950"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arthritis</b> (ar-THRI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of a joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0955"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arthrocentesis</b> (ar-thro-sen-TE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical puncture to remove fluid from the joint space.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0960"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arthrodesis</b> (ar-thro-DE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical fusion of a joint to eliminate movement.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0965"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arthrography</b> (ar-THROG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray imaging of a joint after injection of contrast material.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0970"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arthroplasty</b> (ar-thro-PLAS-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of a joint; total hip replacement and total knee replacement are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0975"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arthroscopy</b> (ar-THROS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Visual examination of the inside of a joint with an endoscope.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0980"><span class="glossterm"><b>Arthrotomy</b> (ar-THROT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of a joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0985"><span class="glossterm"><b>Articular cartilage</b> (ar-TIK-u-lar KAR-tih-laj):</span> <span class="glossdef">Smooth white tissue that covers the ends of bones where they come together at a joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0990"><span class="glossterm"><b>Articulation</b> (ar-tik-u-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Any type of joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls0995"><span class="glossterm"><b>Asbestosis</b> (as-bes-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of asbestos fiber particles in the lungs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1000"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ascites</b> (ah-SI-teez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal accumulation of fluid in the abdomen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1005"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aspermia</b> (a-SPERM-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Failure to produce semen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1010"><span class="glossterm"><b>Asphyxia</b> (as-FIX-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficient oxygen and increased carbon dioxide in the bloodstream leading to unconsciousness or death.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="903" id="pagebreak_903"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1015"><span class="glossterm"><b>Asplenia</b> (a-SPLEN-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Absence of a spleen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1020"><span class="glossterm"><b>Asthma</b> (AZ-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic inflammatory disorder, with airway obstruction due to bronchiolar edema, constriction, and increased mucous production.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1025"><span class="glossterm"><b>Astigmatism</b> (ah-STIG-mah-tiz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">Defective curvature of the cornea or lens of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1030"><span class="glossterm"><b>Astrocyte</b> (AS-tro-site):</span> <span class="glossdef">Glial (neuroglial) cell that transports salts and water from capillaries in the central nervous system.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1035"><span class="glossterm"><b>Astrocytoma</b> (as-tro-si-TO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant brain tumor composed of astrocytes (glial cells).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1040"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ataxia</b> (a-TAK-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Without coordination.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1045"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atelectasis</b> (at-eh-LEK-tah-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collapsed lung.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1050"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atherectomy</b> (ath-eh-REK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of plaque (lipids and clots) that accumulates in the lining of an artery.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1055"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atheroma</b> (ath-er-O-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Mass of fatty plaque that collects in an artery.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1060"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atherosclerosis</b> (ath-er-o-skleh-RO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fatty plaque deposits in the interior lining of an artery; a form of arteriosclerosis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1065"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atopic dermatitis</b> (a-TOP-ik der-mah-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of skin (rash and intense itching) that tends to occur in patients with a family history of allergic reactions.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1070"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atopy</b> (AT-o-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Intense allergic reaction (such as asthma) influenced by hereditary tendency or predisposition.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1075"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atresia</b> (a-TRE-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Absence of a normal opening.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1080"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atrial</b> (A-tre-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to an atrium (upper chamber of the heart).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1085"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atrial fibrillation</b> (A-tre-al fib-rih-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Electrical impulses move randomly throughout the atria, causing the atria to quiver instead of contracting with a normal rhythm.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1090"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atrioventricular block</b> (a-tre-o-ven-TRIK-u-lar blok):</span> <span class="glossdef">Failure of proper conduction of impulses from the SA node through the AV node to the atrioventricular bundle (bundle of His).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1095"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atrioventricular bundle</b> (a-tre-o-ven-TRIK-u-lar BUN-dil):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specialized muscle fibers connecting the atria with the ventricles and transmitting impulses between them; bundle of His.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1100"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atrioventricular node</b> (a-tre-o-ven-TRIK-u-lar node):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specialized tissue in the wall between the atria. Electrical impulses pass from the sinoatrial node (pacemaker) through the atrioventricular node and atrioventricular bundle (bundle of His) toward the ventricles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1105"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atrium; <i>pl.</i> atria</b> (A-tre-um; A-tre-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Upper chamber of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1110"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atrophy</b> (AT-ro-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Decrease in size of normally developed organ or tissue of the body; wasting away.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1115"><span class="glossterm"><b>Atypical antipsychotics</b> (a-TIP-ik-al an-tih-si-KOT-iks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs used to treat schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and other serious mental illnesses (psychoses).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1120"><span class="glossterm"><b>Audiogram</b> (AW-de-o-gram):</span> <span class="glossdef">Record of hearing using an audiometer.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1125"><span class="glossterm"><b>Audiologist</b> (aw-de-OL-o-jist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Health care professional specializing in the evaluation and rehabilitation of people with hearing loss.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1130"><span class="glossterm"><b>Audiometer</b> (aw-de-OM-eh-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Instrument to measure or test hearing.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1135"><span class="glossterm"><b>Audiometry</b> (aw-de-OM-eh-tre):</span> <span class="glossdef">Testing the sense of hearing.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1140"><span class="glossterm"><b>Auditory canal</b> (AW-dih-to-re kah-NAL):</span> <span class="glossdef">Channel that leads from the pinna to the eardrum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1145"><span class="glossterm"><b>Auditory meatus</b> (AW-dih-to-re me-A-tus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Auditory canal.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1150"><span class="glossterm"><b>Auditory nerve fibers</b> (AW-dih-to-re nerv FI-berz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Carry impulses from the inner ear to the brain (cerebral cortex).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1155"><span class="glossterm"><b>Auditory tube</b> (AW-dih-to-re toob):</span> <span class="glossdef">Channel between the middle ear and the nasopharynx; eustachian tube.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1160"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aura</b> (AW-rah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Peculiar sensation appearing before more definite symptoms.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1165"><span class="glossterm"><b>Aural</b> (AW-ral):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1170"><span class="glossterm"><b>Auricle</b> (AW-rih-kl):</span> <span class="glossdef">Protruding part of the external ear; pinna.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1175"><span class="glossterm"><b>Auscultation</b> (aw-skul-TA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Listening for sounds in the chest and abdomen using a stethoscope.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="904" id="pagebreak_904"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1180"><span class="glossterm"><b>Autism</b> (AW-tizm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by inhibited social interaction and communication and by restricted, repetitive behavior.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1185"><span class="glossterm"><b>Autoimmune disease</b> (aw-to-ih-MEWN dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition in which the immune system (antibodies) attacks nomal, healthy cells, producing chronic, disabling diseases.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1190"><span class="glossterm"><b>Autologous transfusion</b> (aw-TOL-o-gus trans-FU-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal and then reinfusion of a patient’s own blood or blood components.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1195"><span class="glossterm"><b>Autonomic nervous system</b> (aw-to-NOM-ik NER-vus SIS-tem):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nerves that control involuntary body functions of muscles, glands, and internal organs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1200"><span class="glossterm"><b>Autopsy</b> (AW-top-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Examination of a body after death (postmortem) to determine the cause of death.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1205"><span class="glossterm"><b>Avoidant personality</b> (ah-VOY-dant per-son-AL-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Personality disorder marked by a pattern of social inhibition, feelings of inadequacy, and hypersensitivity to negative evaluation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1210"><span class="glossterm"><b>Axillary</b> (AK-sil-ar-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the underarm, or armpit.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1215"><span class="glossterm"><b>Axillary nodes</b> (AKS-il-ar-e nodes):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lymph nodes under the arm.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1220"><span class="glossterm"><b>Axon</b> (AKS-on):</span> <span class="glossdef">Microscopic fiber that carries a nervous impulse along a nerve cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1225"><span class="glossterm"><b>Azoospermia</b> (a-zo-o-SPERM-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lack of sperm in the semen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1230"><span class="glossterm"><b>Azotemia</b> (az-o-TE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excess nitrogenous waste products in the blood; uremia.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0015"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0015">B</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls1235"><span class="glossterm"><b>B cell</b> (Bsel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lymphocyte that matures into a plasma cell to secrete antibodies.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1240"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bacilli</b> (bah-SIL-i):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rod-shaped bacteria that are the cause of tuberculosis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1245"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bacterial analyses</b> (bak-TE-re-al ah-NAL-ih-seez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Samples of skin examined for the presence of microorganisms.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1250"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bacteriuria</b> (bak-te-re-U-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bacteria in the urine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1255"><span class="glossterm"><b>Balanitis</b> (bal-ah-NI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the glans penis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1260"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bariatric surgery</b> (bar-e-AT-rik SUR-jer-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Weight loss surgery including gastric sleeve and gastric bypass procedures.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1265"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bartholin glands</b> (BAR-tho-lin glandz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Two small mucus-secreting glands near the opening of the vagina to the outside of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1270"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bartholinitis</b> (bar-tho-lin-I-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of Bartholin glands.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1275"><span class="glossterm"><b>Basal cell carcinoma</b> (BA-sal sel kar-sih-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Skin cancer arising from cells in the basal layer of the epidermis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1280"><span class="glossterm"><b>Basal layer</b> (BA-sal LA-er):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deepest region of the epidermis; it gives rise to all the epidermal cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1285"><span class="glossterm"><b>Base of the lung</b> (base of the lung):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lower portion of the lung.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1290"><span class="glossterm"><b>Basophil</b> (BA-so-fil):</span> <span class="glossdef">White blood cell containing granules that stain blue (with a basic dye); associated with release of histamine and heparin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1295"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bell palsy</b> (bel PAWL-ze):</span> <span class="glossdef">Unilateral paralysis of the face caused by a disorder of the facial nerve.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1300"><span class="glossterm"><b>Benign</b> (be-NINE):</span> <span class="glossdef">Noncancerous.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1305"><span class="glossterm"><b>Benign prostatic hyperplasia</b> (be-NINE pros-TAH-tik hi-per-PLA-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Prostatic enlargement; nonmalignant.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1310"><span class="glossterm"><b>Benign tumor</b> (be-NINE TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Noncancerous growth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1315"><span class="glossterm"><b>Benzodiazepines</b> (ben-zo-di-AZ-eh-peenz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs used to treat anxiety and panic attacks.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1320"><span class="glossterm"><b>Beta blocker</b> (BA-tah BLOK-er):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug used to treat high blood pressure and control heart rate.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1325"><span class="glossterm"><b>Biconvex</b> (bi-KON-vex):</span> <span class="glossdef">Consisting of two surfaces that are rounded, elevated, and curved evenly, like part of a sphere. The lens of the eye is a biconvex body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1330"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bifurcation</b> (bi-fur-KA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Branching into two parts.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1335"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bilateral</b> (bi-LAT-er-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to two or both sides.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1340"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bile</b> (bile):</span> <span class="glossdef">Digestive juice made in the liver and stored in the gallbladder.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="905" id="pagebreak_905"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1345"><span class="glossterm"><b>Biliary</b> (BIH-le-er-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to bile or bile ducts. Bile ducts empty bile into the small intestine (duodenum).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1350"><span class="glossterm"><b>Biliary atresia</b> (BIL-e-ar-e a-TRE-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Congenital absence of the opening from the common bile duct into the small intestine (duodenum).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1355"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bilirubin</b> (bih-le-RU-bin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Orange-yellow pigment found in bile. It is released from the breakdown of hemoglobin when red blood cells die.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1360"><span class="glossterm"><b>Biology</b> (bi-OL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of life (living organisms).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1365"><span class="glossterm"><b>Biopsy</b> (BI-op-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of removing a small piece of living tissue for microscopic examination.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls13651"><span class="glossterm"><b>Biopsychosocial assessment</b> (bi-o-si-ko-SO-shul uh-SES-ment):</span> <span class="glossdef">This model encourages connections among biology, psychology, and the social environment for a comprehensive understanding of an individual’s mental health.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1370"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bipolar disorders</b> (bi-PO-lar dis-OR-derz):</span> <span class="glossdef">These disorders are marked by alternating periods of mania and depression.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1375"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bisphosphonate</b> (bis-FOS-fo-nate):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that prevents bone loss in osteoporosis and osteopenia.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1380"><span class="glossterm"><b>Biventricular pacemaker</b> (bi-ven-TRIK-u-lar PACE-ma-ker):</span> <span class="glossdef">Device enabling ventricles to beat together (in synchrony) so that more blood is pumped out of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1385"><span class="glossterm"><b>Blepharitis</b> (bleh-fah-RI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of an eyelid.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1390"><span class="glossterm"><b>Blepharoptosis</b> (bleh-fah-rop-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sagging or drooping eyelid; ptosis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1395"><span class="glossterm"><b>Blood transfusion</b> (blud trans-FU-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood cells or whole blood from a closely matched donor are infused into a patient.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1400"><span class="glossterm"><b>Blood-brain barrier</b> (blud-brayn BAH-re-er):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood vessels that let certain substances enter the brain tissue and keep other substances out.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1405"><span class="glossterm"><b>BNP test</b> (BNPtest):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurement of BNP (brain natriuretic peptide) in blood; BNP is elevated in heart failure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1410"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bone</b> (bone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Dense, hard connective tissue composing the skeleton.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1415"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bone density test</b> (bone DEN-sih-te test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Low-energy x-ray absorption in bones of the spinal column, pelvis, and wrist; used to measure bone mass. Also called dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA or DXA).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1420"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bone depression</b> (bone de-PREH-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Opening or hollow region serving as a connection for bones, or as passageways for blood vessels and nerves.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1425"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bone marrow biopsy</b> (bone MAH-ro BI-op-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Needle aspiration of a small amount of bone marrow followed by examination under a microscope.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1430"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bone marrow transplantation</b> (bone MAH-row tranz-plan-TA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bone marrow tissue is infused intravenously into a patient.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1435"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bone process</b> (bone PROS-es):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enlarged area that extends out from bones as an attachment for muscles, tendons, and ligaments.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1440"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bone scan</b> (bone skan):</span> <span class="glossdef">Uptake of a radioactive substance is measured in bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1445"><span class="glossterm"><b>Borborygmi</b> (bor-bor-IG-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rumbling or gurgling noises produced by hyperactive movement of gas, fluid, or both in the gastrointestinal tract.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1450"><span class="glossterm"><b>Borderline personality</b> (BOR-der-line per-son-AL-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Instability in interpersonal relationships and sense of self; alternating involvement with and rejection of people.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1455"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bowel</b> (BOW-el):</span> <span class="glossdef">Intestine. The large bowel is called the colon and the small bowel is the small intestine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1460"><span class="glossterm"><b>Brachial artery</b> (BRA-ke-al AR-ter-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Artery that carries blood to the arm.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1465"><span class="glossterm"><b>Brachytherapy</b> (bra-ke-THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Placement of radioactive material (small sealed containers) in contact with or implanted into tumor tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1470"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bradycardia</b> (bra-de-KAR-de-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Slow heartbeat.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1475"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bradykinesia</b> (bra-de-kih-NE-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Slow movement.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1480"><span class="glossterm"><b>Brain tumor</b> (BRAYN TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal growth of brain tissue and meninges; may be benign or malignant growth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1485"><span class="glossterm"><b>Brainstem</b> (BRAYN-stem):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lower portion of the brain that connects the cerebrum with the spinal cord; includes the midbrain, pons, and medulla oblongata.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="906" id="pagebreak_906"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1490"><span class="glossterm"><b>Brand name</b> (brand name):</span> <span class="glossdef">Commercial name for a drug; trade or trademark name.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1495"><span class="glossterm"><b>Breast cancer</b> (brest KAN-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of the breast (arising from milk glands and ducts).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1500"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bronchiectasis</b> (brong-ke-EK-tah-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of the lung in which bronchi become damaged and widened (dilated); usually secondary to infection.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1510"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bronchioles</b> (BRONG-ke-ohlz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small bronchial tubes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1515"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bronchiolitis</b> (brong-ke-o-LI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of a bronchiole.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1520"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bronchitis</b> (brong-KI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of bronchial tubes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1525"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bronchoalveolar lavage</b> (BRONG-ko-al-ve-O-lar lah-VAJ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Irrigation or washing of a bronchus by injecting fluid through a bronchoscope and then removing it to analyze the contents.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1530"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bronchodilator</b> (brong-ko-DI-la-tor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Agent that dilates (widens) blood vessels and relieves bronchospasm.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1535"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bronchopleural</b> (brong-ko-PLU-ral):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the bronchus and the pleura.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1540"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bronchoscopy</b> (brong-KOS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Visual examination of the bronchial tubes using an endoscope or bronchoscope.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1545"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bronchospasm</b> (BRONG-ko-spaz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">Involuntary muscular contractions in bronchial tubes leading to narrowing of the bronchi.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1550"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bronchus; <i>pl.</i> bronchi</b> (BRONG-kus; BRONG-ki):</span> <span class="glossdef">Branch of the trachea that leads toward the air sacs of the lung.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1555"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bruit</b> (BRU-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal blowing or swishing sound heard on auscultation of an artery or an organ.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1560"><span class="glossterm"><b>Buccal</b> (BUK-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the cheek.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1565"><span class="glossterm"><b>Buccal mucosa</b> (BUK-al mu-KO-sah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Mucous membrane lining the cheek.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1570"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bulbourethral glands</b> (bul-bo-u-RE-thral glandz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pair of exocrine glands, located on either side of the male urethra, just below the prostate. They secrete fluid that becomes part of semen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1575"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bulimia nervosa</b> (bu-LE-me-ah ner-VO-sah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Eating disorder marked by binge eating followed by induced vomiting or other forms of purging, such as misuse of laxatives or enemas; also associated with depression.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1580"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bulla; <i>pl.</i> bullae</b> (BUL-ah; BUL-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Large blister.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1585"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bun</b> (B-U-N):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurement of urea levels in blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1590"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bundle of His</b> (BUN-dil of hiss):</span> <span class="glossdef">Atrioventricular bundle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1595"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bunion</b> (BUN-yun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enlargement of bone or tissue around the joint at the base of the big toe (metatarsophalangeal joint); hallux valgus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1600"><span class="glossterm"><b>Burns</b> (burnz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Injuries to tissues caused by heat contact.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1605"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bursa; <i>pl.</i> bursae</b> (BUR-sah; BUR-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sac of fluid near a joint; promotes smooth sliding of one tissue against another.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1610"><span class="glossterm"><b>Bursitis</b> (bur-SI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of a bursa.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0020"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0020">C</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls1615"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cachexia</b> (kah-KEK-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">General ill health (muscle wasting and weight loss) associated with severe, chronic disease, such as cancer.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1620"><span class="glossterm"><b>Caffeine</b> (kaf-een):</span> <span class="glossdef">Central nervous system stimulant.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1625"><span class="glossterm"><b>Calcaneal</b> (kal-KA-ne-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the calcaneus (heel bone).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1630"><span class="glossterm"><b>Calcaneus</b> (kal-KA-ne-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Heel bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1635"><span class="glossterm"><b>Calciferol</b> (kal-SIF-er-ol):</span> <span class="glossdef">Active form of vitamin D secreted by the kidneys.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1640"><span class="glossterm"><b>Calcitonin</b> (kal-sih-TO-nin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the thyroid gland; lowers calcium levels in the blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1645"><span class="glossterm"><b>Calcium</b> (KAL-se-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of the mineral constituents of bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1650"><span class="glossterm"><b>Calcium channel blocker</b> (KAL-se-um CHAN-el BLOK-er):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cardiovascular drug used to treat chest pain (angina) and high blood pressure (hypertension).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1655"><span class="glossterm"><b>Caliceal</b> (ka-lih-SE-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a calyx (cup-like collecting region of the renal pelvis).</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="907" id="pagebreak_907"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1660"><span class="glossterm"><b>Caliectasis</b> (ka-le-EK-tah-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Dilation or widening of a calyx. This occurs when urine is backed up in the kidney as in hydronephrosis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1665"><span class="glossterm"><b>Callus</b> (KAL-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hard, thickened area of skin occurring in areas of the body exposed to friction or pressure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1670"><span class="glossterm"><b>Calyx; <i>pl.</i> calyces</b> (KA-liks; KA-lih-seez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cup-like collecting region of the renal pelvis (central section of the kidney).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1675"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cancellous bone</b> (KAN-sel-us bone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Spongy, porous bone tissue in the inner part of a bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1680"><span class="glossterm"><b>Canine teeth</b> (KA-nine teeth):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pointed dog-like (canine means dog) teeth next to the incisors.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1685"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cannabis</b> (KAN-ah-bis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Plant substance from which marijuana is obtained.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1690"><span class="glossterm"><b>Capillary</b> (KAP-ih-lair-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Smallest type of blood vessel.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1695"><span class="glossterm"><b>Carbon dioxide</b> (KAR-bon di-OX-ide):</span> <span class="glossdef">Gas produced in tissue cells when oxygen and food combine; exhaled through the lungs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1700"><span class="glossterm"><b>Carcinogenesis</b> (kar-sih-no-JEN-eh-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Formation or production of cancer.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1705"><span class="glossterm"><b>Carcinogenic</b> (kar-sih-no-JEN-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to producing cancer.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1710"><span class="glossterm"><b>Carcinogens</b> (kar-SIH-no-jenz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Substances that produce cancer.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1715"><span class="glossterm"><b>Carcinoma</b> (kar-sih-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cancerous (malignant) tumor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1720"><span class="glossterm"><b>Carcinoma in situ</b> (kar-sih-NO-mah in SI-tu):</span> <span class="glossdef">Early, localized form of cancer, confined to its site of origin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1725"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cardiac</b> (KAR-de-ak):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1730"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cardiac arrest</b> (KAR-de-ak ah-REST):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sudden, unexpected stoppage of the heart; sudden cardiac death.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1735"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cardiac biomarkers</b> (KAR-de-ak BI-o-mar-kerz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chemicals are measured in the blood as evidence of a heart attack.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1740"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cardiac catheterization</b> (KAR-de-ak kath-eh-ter-ih-ZA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Thin, flexible tube is guided into the heart via a vein or an artery, and after contrast material is introduced, blood pressure is measured and x-rays are taken to image patterns of blood flow.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1745"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cardiac glycoside</b> (KAR-de-ak GLI-ko-side):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that treats heart failure by increasing the force of contraction of the heart; digoxin is an example.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1750"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cardiac MRI</b> (KAR-de-ak MRI):</span> <span class="glossdef">Images of the heart are produced with magnetic waves.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1755"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cardiac tamponade</b> (KAR-de-ak tam-po-NADE):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pressure on the heart caused by fluid in the pericardial space.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1760"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cardiogenic shock</b> (kar-de-o-JEN-ik shok):</span> <span class="glossdef">Circulatory failure due to poor heart function.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1765"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cardiology</b> (kar-de-OL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1770"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cardiomegaly</b> (kar-de-o-MEG-ah-le):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enlargement of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1775"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cardiomyopathy</b> (kar-de-o-mi-OP-ah-the):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease of heart muscle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1780"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cardiovascular drug</b> (kar-de-o-VAS-ku-lar drug):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that treats the heart and blood vessels; ACE inhibitors, diuretics, beta blockers, and calcium channel blockers are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1785"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cardioversion</b> (kar-de-o-VER-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment for serious arrhythmias using brief discharges of electricity to shock the heart so that a normal rhythm can begin; defibrillation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1790"><span class="glossterm"><b>Carpal tunnel syndrome</b> (KAR-pal TUN-nel SIN-drohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Compression (by a wrist ligament) of the median nerve as it passes through bones and tendons of the wrist.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1795"><span class="glossterm"><b>Carpals</b> (KAR-palz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bones of the wrist.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1800"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cartilage</b> (KAR-tih-lij):</span> <span class="glossdef">Flexible, connective tissue often attached to bones at joints (articular cartilage).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1805"><span class="glossterm"><b>Castration</b> (kas-TRA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of sex glands (gonads), ovaries or testes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1810"><span class="glossterm"><b>Catabolism</b> (kah-TAB-o-liz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cellular process of breaking down complex nutrients to simpler substances; energy is released to do the work of the cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1815"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cataract</b> (KAT-ah-rakt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Clouding of the lens, causing decreased vision.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1820"><span class="glossterm"><b>Catatonia</b> (kat-ah-TO-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Immobility, muscular rigidity, and mutism induced by a psychologic disorder such as schizophrenia.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="908" id="pagebreak_908"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1825"><span class="glossterm"><b>Catecholamines</b> (kat-ek-OHL-am-eenz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormones secreted by the adrenal medulla; epinephrine (adrenaline) is an example.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1830"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cathartic</b> (kah-THAR-tik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that relieves constipation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1835"><span class="glossterm"><b>Catheter</b> (KATH-et-er):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tube for injecting or removing fluids.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1840"><span class="glossterm"><b>Catheter ablation</b> (KATH-eh-ter ab-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Brief delivery of radiofrequency energy to destroy areas of heart tissue that may be causing arrhythmias.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1845"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cauda equina</b> (KAW-dah eh-KWI-nah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collection of spinal nerves below the end of the spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1850"><span class="glossterm"><b>Causalgia</b> (kaw-ZAL-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Intense burning pain, often resulting from injury to a peripheral nerve.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1855"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cauterization</b> (kaw-ter-ih-ZA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Destruction of tissue by burning.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1860"><span class="glossterm"><b>CD4+ cell</b> (CD4POS-ih-tiv sel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Helper T cells that carry the CD4+ protein antigen on their surface.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1865"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cesarean section</b> (se-ZAIR-e-an SEK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical incision of the abdominal wall and uterus to deliver a fetus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1870"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cecal</b> (SE-kal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the cecum, which is the first part of the large intestine (colon).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1875"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cecal volvulus</b> (SE-kal VOL-vu-lus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal twisting of the cecum (first part of the colon).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1880"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cecum</b> (SE-kum):</span> <span class="glossdef">First part of the large intestine (colon).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1885"><span class="glossterm"><b>Celiac</b> (SE-le-ak):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the abdomen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1890"><span class="glossterm"><b>Celiac disease</b> (SE-le-ak dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Autoimmune disorder in which villi in the lining of the small intestine are damaged, resulting from dietary glutens, such as wheat, barley, and rye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1895"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cell body</b> (sel BOD-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Part of the nerve cell (neuron) that contains the nucleus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1900"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cell membrane</b> (sel MEM-brayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Structure surrounding and protecting the cell; allows materials to pass in and out.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1905"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cell-mediated immunity</b> (sel me-de-A-ted ih-MU-nit-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">T cells (cytotoxic, helper, and suppressor) respond to antigens and destroy them; a type of adaptive immunity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1910"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cellulitis</b> (sel-u-LI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Diffuse, acute inflammatory infection of the skin marked by local heat, redness, pain, and swelling.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1915"><span class="glossterm"><b>Central nervous system</b> (SEN-tral NER-vus SIS-tem):</span> <span class="glossdef">Brain and spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1920"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cephalgia</b> (seh-FAL-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Head pain; headache.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1925"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cephalic</b> (seh-FAH-lik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the head.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1930"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cephalic version</b> (seh-FAH-lik VER-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Procedure for turning the fetus so that its head is the presenting part to enter the birth canal first.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1935"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebellar</b> (seh-reh-BEL-ar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the cerebellum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1940"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebellopontine</b> (seh-reh-bel-o-PON-teen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the cerebellum and pons.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1945"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebellum</b> (seh-reh-BEL-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Posterior part of the brain that coordinates muscle movements and maintains balance.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1950"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebral</b> (seh-RE-bral):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the cerebrum (largest part of the brain).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1955"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebral angiography</b> (seh-RE-bral an-je-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray record of blood vessels in the brain after intravenous injection of contrast material.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1960"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebral concussion</b> (seh-RE-bral kon-KUSH-un):</span> <span class="glossdef">Type of traumatic brain injury caused by a blow to the head.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1965"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebral contusion</b> (seh-RE-bral kon-TU-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bruising of brain tissue resulting from direct trauma to the head.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1970"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebral cortex</b> (seh-RE-bral KOR-teks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Outer region of the cerebrum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1975"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebral hemorrhage</b> (seh-RE-bral HEM-or-ij):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bursting of an artery in the brain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1980"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebral palsy</b> (seh-RE-bral PAWL-ze):</span> <span class="glossdef">Partial paralysis and lack of muscular coordination due to decreased oxygen to a fetus during pregnancy or to the infant shortly after birth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1985"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebrospinal fluid</b> (seh-re-bro-SPI-nal FLU-id):</span> <span class="glossdef">Clear, watery fluid that circulates throughout the brain and spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1990"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebrospinal fluid analysis</b> (seh-re-bro-SPI-nal FLU-id ah-NAH-lih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Samples of cerebrospinal fluid are examined for blood cells, protein, glucose, tumor cells, bacteria, and other substances.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="909" id="pagebreak_909"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls1995"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebrovascular accident</b> (seh-re-bro-VAS-cu-lar AK-sih-dent):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disruption of the normal blood supply to the brain; a stroke or CVA.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2000"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerebrum</b> (seh-RE-brum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Largest part of the brain; responsible for voluntary muscular activity, vision, speech, taste, hearing, thought, and memory, among other functions.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2005"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cerumen</b> (seh-RU-men):</span> <span class="glossdef">Waxy substance secreted by the external ear; earwax.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2010"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cervical</b> (SER-vih-kul):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the neck of the body or neck-like lower portion of the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2015"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cervical cancer</b> (SER-vih-kul KAN-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant cells within the cervix; carcinoma of the cervix.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2020"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cervical dysplasia</b> (SER-vih-kul dis-PLA-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal cell growth within the cervix.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2025"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cervical nodes</b> (SER-vih-kul nodes):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lymph nodes in the neck.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2030"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cervical vertebrae</b> (SER-vih-kul VER-teh-bray):</span> <span class="glossdef">Seven backbones in the neck.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2035"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cervicitis</b> (ser-vih-SI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the cervix.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2040"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cervix</b> (SER-viks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Neck-like, lower portion of the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2045"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chalazion</b> (kah-LA-ze-on):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small, hard, cystic mass (granuloma) on the eyelid.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2050"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chancre</b> (SHANK-er):</span> <span class="glossdef">Genital ulcer commonly formed during the primary stage of syphilis in males and females.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2055"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cheilosis</b> (ki-LO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of the lip.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2060"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chemical name</b> (KEM-ik-al name):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chemical formula for a drug.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2065"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chemotherapy</b> (ke-mo-THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment using drugs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2070"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chlamydia</b> (klah-MID-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bacterial infection (by <i>Chlamydia trachomatis</i>) of the urethra and reproductive tract in men and women.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2075"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cholangiectasis</b> (ko-lan-je-EK-tah-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal widening or dilation of a bile vessel (bile duct).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2080"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cholangiocarcinoma</b> (ko-lan-je-o-kar-sih-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of bile vessels (bile ducts).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2085"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cholangiography</b> (ko-lan-je-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray recording of the biliary system performed after injection of contrast into the bile ducts.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2090"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cholangiopancreatography</b> (ko-lan-je-o-pan-kre-uh-TOG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray recording of bile vessels (ducts) and the pancreas after administration of contrast material directly into bile and pancreatic ducts.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2095"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cholangitis</b> (ko-lan-JI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of bile vessels (bile ducts).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2100"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cholecystectomy</b> (ko-le-sis-TEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal (excision, resection) of the gallbladder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2105"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cholecystojejunostomy</b> (ko-le-sis-to-jeh-jun-NOS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Formation of a new opening between the gallbladder and the jejunum (second part of the small intestine); an anastomosis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2110"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cholecystolithiasis</b> (ko-le-sis-to-lih-THI-ah-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of stones in the gallbladder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2115"><span class="glossterm"><b>Choledochal</b> (ko-le-DOK-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the common bile duct.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2120"><span class="glossterm"><b>Choledochectasia</b> (ko-le-dok-ek-TA-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Dilation of the common bile duct.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2125"><span class="glossterm"><b>Choledochojejunostomy</b> (ko-leh-do-ko-jeh-ju-NOS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical anastomosis (creation of a new opening) between the common bile duct and the jejunum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2130"><span class="glossterm"><b>Choledocholithiasis</b> (ko-leh-do-ko-lih-THI-ah-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of stones in the common bile duct.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2135"><span class="glossterm"><b>Choledochotomy</b> (ko-leh-do-KOT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of the common bile duct.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2140"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cholelithiasis</b> (ko-le-lih-THI-ah-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of stones in the gallbladder; gallstones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2145"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cholestasis</b> (ko-le-STA-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Stoppage of bile flow.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2150"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cholesteatoma</b> (ko-le-ste-ah-TO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collection of skin cells and cholesterol in a sac within the middle ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2155"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cholesterol-binding drug</b> (ko-LES-ter-ole BIN-ding drug):</span> <span class="glossdef">Binds to dietary cholesterol and prevents its uptake from the gastrointestinal tract.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2160"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cholesterol-lowering drug</b> (ko-LES-ter-ole LO-wer-ing drug):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lowers cholesterol by preventing its production by the liver; statin.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="910" id="pagebreak_910"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2165"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chondrocostal</b> (kon-dro-KOS-tal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to cartilage that is attached to the ribs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2170"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chondroma</b> (kon-DRO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor of cartilage; benign (noncancerous).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2175"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chondromalacia</b> (kon-dro-mah-LA-shah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Softening of cartilage.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2180"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chondrosarcoma</b> (kon-dro-sar-KO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant (cancerous) tumor of cartilage. The root <i>sarc</i> indicates that the malignant tumor arises from a type of flesh or connective tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2185"><span class="glossterm"><b>Choriocarcinoma</b> (ko-re-o-kar-sih-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of the placenta.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2190"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chorion</b> (KOR-e-on):</span> <span class="glossdef">Outermost membrane surrounding the developing fetus. It forms the fetal part of the placenta.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2195"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chorionic</b> (kor-e-ON-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the chorion.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2200"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chorionic villus sampling</b> (ko-re-ON-ik VIL-us SAMP-ling):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sampling of placental tissues (chorionic villi) for prenatal diagnosis; CVS.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2205"><span class="glossterm"><b>Choroid</b> (KOR-oyd):</span> <span class="glossdef">Middle, vascular layer of the eye, between the retina and the sclera.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2210"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chromosome</b> (KRO-mo-sohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rod-shaped structure in the nucleus of a cell; contains genetic material (DNA).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2215"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chronic</b> (KRON-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to occurring over a long time.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2220"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chronic bronchitis</b> (KRON-ik brong-KI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the bronchi persisting over a long period.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2225"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chronic lymphoid leukemia</b> (KRON-ik LIM-foyd lu-KE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Type of leukemia in which abnormal numbers of relatively mature lymphocytes predominate in the bone marrow, lymph nodes, and spleen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2230"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chronic myeloid leukemia</b> (KRON-ik MI-eh-loyd lu-KE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Type of leukemia in which both mature and immature granulocytes are present in large numbers in the bone marrow and blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2235"><span class="glossterm"><b>Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease</b> (KRON-ik ob-STRUK-tiv PUL-mo-NAIR-e dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lung and bronchial tube conditions that block and damage airways and persist over a long period. Examples are chronic bronchitis and emphysema.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2240"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cicatrix</b> (SIK-ah-triks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Scar tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2245"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cilia</b> (SIL-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Thin hairs that are attached to the mucous membrane epithelium lining passageways in the body. Cilia are found in the respiratory tract and in the fallopian tubes of females.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2250"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ciliary body</b> (SIL-e-air-e BOD-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Structure surrounding the lens that connects the iris to the choroid. It contains ciliary muscles, which control the shape of the lens, and it secretes aqueous humor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2255"><span class="glossterm"><b>Circumcision</b> (sir-kum-SIZH-un):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical removal of the foreskin (prepuce) surrounding the end of the penis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2260"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cirrhosis</b> (sir-RO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic, degenerative disease of the liver.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2265"><span class="glossterm"><b>Claudication</b> (klaw-deh-KA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pain, tension, and weakness in a leg after walking has begun, but absence of pain at rest.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2270"><span class="glossterm"><b>Claustrophobia</b> (klaws-tro-FO-be-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fear of closed-in places.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2275"><span class="glossterm"><b>Clavicle</b> (KLAV-ih-kul):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collarbone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2280"><span class="glossterm"><b>Clitoris</b> (KLIH-tor-is):</span> <span class="glossdef">Organ of sensitive erectile tissue anterior to the opening of the female urethra.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2285"><span class="glossterm"><b>Coagulation</b> (ko-ag-u-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of blood clotting.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2290"><span class="glossterm"><b>Coagulopathy</b> (ko-ag-u-LOP-ah-the):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease of blood clotting.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2295"><span class="glossterm"><b>Coarctation of the aorta</b> (ko-ark-TA-shun of the a-OR-tah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Congenital anomaly in which a portion of the aorta near the heart is narrowed.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2300"><span class="glossterm"><b>Coccygeal</b> (kok-sih-JE-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the tailbone or coccyx.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2305"><span class="glossterm"><b>Coccyx</b> (KOK-siks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tailbone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2310"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cochlea</b> (KOK-le-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Snail-shaped, spirally wound tube in the inner ear; contains hearing-sensitive receptor cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2315"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cochlear</b> (KOK-le-ar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the cochlea.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2320"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cognitive behavioral therapy</b> (KOG-nit-iv be-HAYV-yor-al THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Changing behavior patterns and responses by training and repetition and learning how thinking patterns cause symptoms, such as anger, anxiety, and depression.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2325"><span class="glossterm"><b>Coitus</b> (KO-it-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sexual intercourse.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="911" id="pagebreak_911"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2330"><span class="glossterm"><b>Colectomy</b> (ko-LEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical removal (excision) of the colon.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2335"><span class="glossterm"><b>Collagen</b> (KOL-ah-jen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Dense, connective tissue protein strands found in bone and other tissues such as ligaments, tendons, and skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2340"><span class="glossterm"><b>Colon</b> (KO-lon):</span> <span class="glossdef">Large intestine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2345"><span class="glossterm"><b>Colonic</b> (ko-LON-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the colon.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2350"><span class="glossterm"><b>Colonic polyps</b> (ko-LON-ik POL-ips):</span> <span class="glossdef">Benign growths protruding from the mucous membrane of the colon.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2355"><span class="glossterm"><b>Colonoscopy</b> (ko-lon-OS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Visual (endoscopic) examination of the colon.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2360"><span class="glossterm"><b>Colony-stimulating factor</b> (KOL-o-ne STIM-u-la-ting FAK-tor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Protein factor that stimulates the growth and differentiation of developing blood cells. Examples are granulocyte CSF, erythropoietin, and thrombopoietin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2365"><span class="glossterm"><b>Colorectal cancer</b> (ko-lo-REK-tal KAN-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Adenocarcinoma of the colon or the rectum or both.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2370"><span class="glossterm"><b>Colostomy</b> (ko-LOS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">New opening of the colon through the abdominal wall to the outside of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2375"><span class="glossterm"><b>Colposcopy</b> (kol-POS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Visual examination of the vagina using an endoscope (colposcope).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2380"><span class="glossterm"><b>Coma</b> (KO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">State of unconsciousness from which a patient cannot be aroused.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2385"><span class="glossterm"><b>Comatose</b> (KO-mah-tohs):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a coma.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2390"><span class="glossterm"><b>Combination chemotherapy</b> (KOM-bih-NA-shun ke-mo-THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Use of multiple chemotherapeutic agents together for treatment of tumors.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2395"><span class="glossterm"><b>Comedo; <i>pl.</i> comedones</b> (KO-me-do; ko-me-DOHNZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Clogged hair follicle (pore) in the skin; blackhead (open comedo) or whitehead (closed comedo).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2400"><span class="glossterm"><b>Common bile duct</b> (KOM-on bile dukt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tube carrying bile from the liver and gallbladder into the duodenum (first part of the small intestine).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2405"><span class="glossterm"><b>Compact bone</b> (KOM-pakt bone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hard, dense bone tissue, forming the outer portion of bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2410"><span class="glossterm"><b>Complement system</b> (COM-pleh-ment SIS-tem):</span> <span class="glossdef">Set of proteins in the blood that help antibodies kill their target; part of the immune system.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2415"><span class="glossterm"><b>Complete blood count</b> (kom-PLEET blood kownt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Determination of the number of all blood cells; white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2420"><span class="glossterm"><b>Compulsion</b> (kom-PUL-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Uncontrollable urge to perform an act repeatedly in an attempt to reduce anxiety.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2425"><span class="glossterm"><b>Computed tomography</b> (kom-PU-ted to-MOG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cross-sectional x-ray imaging of an organ with or without contrast material.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2430"><span class="glossterm"><b>Computerized tomography angiography</b> (kom-PU-ted to-MOG-rah-fe an-je-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Computed tomography technique to visualize arterial and venous vessels throughout the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2435"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cone</b> (kone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Photoreceptor cell in the retina that transforms light energy into a nerve impulse. Cones are responsible for color and central vision.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2440"><span class="glossterm"><b>Congenital anomaly</b> (con-JEN-it-al ah-NOM-ah-le):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormality present at birth; birth defect.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2445"><span class="glossterm"><b>Congenital heart disease</b> (kon-JEN-ih-tal hart dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Structural heart defects that appear at birth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2450"><span class="glossterm"><b>Congestive heart failure</b> (kon-JES-tiv hart FAIL-yur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Heart is unable to pump its required amount of blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2455"><span class="glossterm"><b>Conization</b> (ko-nih-ZA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of a cone-shaped section (cone biopsy) of the cervix.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2460"><span class="glossterm"><b>Conjunctiva</b> (kon-junk-TI-vah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Delicate membrane lining the eyelids and covering the eyeball up to the cornea.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2465"><span class="glossterm"><b>Conjunctivitis</b> (kon-junk-tih-VI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the conjunctiva.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2470"><span class="glossterm"><b>Connective tissue</b> (kon-NEK-tiv TIH-shu):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tissue that supports and binds other tissues and parts. Examples are bone, cartilage, muscle, fat, and fibrous tissues.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2475"><span class="glossterm"><b>Constipation</b> (con-stih-PA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Difficulty in passing (eliminating) feces (stool).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2480"><span class="glossterm"><b>Contraindication</b> (kon-trah-in-dih-KA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Factor that indicates against the administration of a drug or procedure in the care of a patient.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2485"><span class="glossterm"><b>Contralateral</b> (kon-trah-LAT-er-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Affecting the opposite side of a part of the body.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="912" id="pagebreak_912"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2490"><span class="glossterm"><b>Contrast studies</b> (KON-trast STUD-eez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radiopaque materials (contrast media) are injected to obtain contrast between tissues that would be indistinguishable from one another.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2495"><span class="glossterm"><b>Controlled substances</b> (kon-TROLD SUB-stan-sez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs that produce tolerance and dependence and have the potential for abuse or addiction.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2500"><span class="glossterm"><b>Conversion disorder</b> (kon-VER-zhun dis-OR-der):</span> <span class="glossdef">Physical symptoms appear with no organic basis and as a result of anxiety and inner conflict.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2505"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cor pulmonale</b> (kor pul-mo-NAH-le):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enlargement of the right side of the heart due to lung disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2510"><span class="glossterm"><b>Core needle biopsy</b> (core NE-del BI-op-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Insertion of a needle into tissue to remove a core of cells to examine under a microscope.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2515"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cornea</b> (KOR-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fibrous transparent layer of clear tissue that extends over the anterior portion of the eyeball.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2520"><span class="glossterm"><b>Corneal abrasion</b> (KOR-ne-al ah-BRA-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Superficial scratch on the cornea (front of the eye).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2525"><span class="glossterm"><b>Corneoscleral</b> (kor-ne-o-SKLER-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the cornea and sclera (white of the eye).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2530"><span class="glossterm"><b>Coronary arteries</b> (KOR-o-nair-e AR-teh-reez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Branches of the aorta bringing oxygen-rich blood to the heart muscle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2535"><span class="glossterm"><b>Coronary artery bypass grafting</b> (KOR-o-nair-e AR-teh-re BI-pas GRAF-ting):</span> <span class="glossdef">Arteries or veins are grafted onto coronary arteries to bypass blocked arteries and bring blood supply to the myocardium.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2540"><span class="glossterm"><b>Coronary artery disease</b> (KOR-o-nair-e AR-teh-re dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Arteries that supply blood to the heart muscle become clogged and blocked with deposits of fatty material and cholesterol (plaque).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2545"><span class="glossterm"><b>Corpus luteum</b> (KOR-pus LU-te-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Empty ovarian follicle that secretes progesterone after release of the egg cell; literally, means yellow (luteum) body (corpus).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2550"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cortex</b> (KOR-teks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Outer region of an organ. The renal cortex is the outer region of the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2555"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cortical</b> (KOR-tik-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the cortex (outer region of an organ).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2560"><span class="glossterm"><b>Corticosteroids</b> (kor-tik-o-STER-oydz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormones secreted by the adrenal cortex; cortisol and aldosterone are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2565"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cortisol</b> (KOR-tih-sole):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the adrenal cortex; increases blood sugar. It is secreted in times of stress and has an anti-inflammatory effect.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2570"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cranial bones</b> (KRA-ne-al bones):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bones of the skull; ethmoid, frontal, occipital, parietal, sphenoid, and temporal.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2575"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cranial cavity</b> (KRA-ne-al KAV-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Space in the head containing the brain and surrounded by the skull.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2580"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cranial nerves</b> (KRA-ne-al nervz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nerves that carry messages to and from the brain; there are 12 pairs of cranial nerves.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2585"><span class="glossterm"><b>Craniotome</b> (KRA-ne-o-tohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Instrument to cut the skull (cranium).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2590"><span class="glossterm"><b>Craniotomy</b> (kra-ne-OT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of the skull.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2595"><span class="glossterm"><b>Creatinine</b> (kre-AH-tih-neen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nitrogenous waste excreted in urine; a product of muscle metabolism.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2600"><span class="glossterm"><b>Creatinine clearance</b> (kre-AH-tih-neen KLE-ranz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurement of the rate at which creatinine is cleared from the blood by the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2605"><span class="glossterm"><b>Crepitus</b> (KREP-ih-tus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Crackling sound produced when ends of bone rub against each other or against roughened cartilage.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2610"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cretinism</b> (KRE-tin-izm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hypothyroidism during infancy and childhood, leading to a lack of normal physical and mental growth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2615"><span class="glossterm"><b>Crohn disease</b> (KROHN dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic inflammation of the intestinal tract.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2620"><span class="glossterm"><b>Croup</b> (kroop):</span> <span class="glossdef">Acute viral infection of infants and children with obstruction of the larynx, accompanied by barking cough and stridor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2625"><span class="glossterm"><b>Crust</b> (krust):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collection on the skin of dried sebum and cellular debris; scab.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2630"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cryogenic surgery</b> (kri-o-GEN-ik SUR-jer-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Use of extremely cold temperatures to freeze or destroy tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2635"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cryosurgery</b> (kri-o-SUR-jer-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Use of subfreezing temperature to destroy tissue; cryocauterization.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2640"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cryptorchidism</b> (kript-OR-kid-izm):</span> <span class="glossdef">One or both testes fail to descend into the scrotal sac near the time of birth.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="913" id="pagebreak_913"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2645"><span class="glossterm"><b>CT urography</b> (CT u-ROG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray images using computed tomography show multiple cross-sectional and other views of the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2650"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cul-de-sac</b> (KUL-de-sak):</span> <span class="glossdef">Region in the lower abdomen, midway between the rectum and the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2660"><span class="glossterm"><b>Curettage</b> (ku-re-TAJ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Scraping of material from the skin or from the wall of a cavity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2665"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cushing syndrome</b> (KUSH-ing SIN-drohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Group of symptoms produced by excess cortisol from the adrenal cortex; obesity, hyperglycemia, and excess fat deposition in the body. High levels of exogenous cortisol (cortisone administration) can produce similar results.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2670"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cuticle</b> (KU-tih-kul):</span> <span class="glossdef">Band of epidermis at the base and sides of the nail plate.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2675"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cyanosis</b> (si-ah-NO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of bluish coloration of the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2680"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cycloplegic</b> (si-klo-PLE-jik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to paralysis of the ciliary muscles of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2685"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cyclothymia</b> (si-klo-THI-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Patient experiences alternating states of depression and exhilaration; mild form of bipolar disorder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2690"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cyst</b> (sist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Thick-walled, closed sac or pouch containing fluid or semisolid material.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2695"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cystectomy</b> (sis-TEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excision (removal) of the urinary bladder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2700"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cystic fibrosis</b> (SIS-tik fi-BRO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inherited disorder of exocrine glands resulting in thick mucinous secretions in the respiratory tract that do not drain normally.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2705"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cystic tumor</b> (SIS-tik TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor that forms large open spaces filled with fluid.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2710"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cystitis</b> (sis-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the urinary bladder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2715"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cystocele</b> (SIS-to-seel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hernia of the urinary bladder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2720"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cystoscopy</b> (sis-TOS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Visual examination of the urinary bladder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2725"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cystostomy</b> (sis-TOS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">New opening of the urinary bladder to the outside of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2730"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cytogenetic analysis</b> (si-to-jeh-NET-ik ah-NAH-leh-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chromosomes of normal or tumor cells are examined for breaks, translocations, or deletions of DNA.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2735"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cytokines</b> (SI-to-kines):</span> <span class="glossdef">Proteins secreted by cytotoxic T cells that aid in antigen destruction. Examples are interferons and interleukins.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2740"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cytology</b> (si-TOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2745"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cytoplasm</b> (SI-to-plaz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">All of the material that is outside the nucleus and yet contained within the cell membrane.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2750"><span class="glossterm"><b>Cytotoxic T cell</b> (si-to-TOK-sik T sel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lymphocyte that directly kills antigens; called CD8+ T cell.</span></li></ul></section></section></section></body></html>