<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html lang="EN" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/><title>MINI-DICTIONARY</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../Style/media.css"/></head><body><section><a id="gs0025"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0025">D</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls2755"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dacryoadenitis</b> (dak-re-o-ad-eh-NI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of tear glands.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2760"><span class="glossterm"><b>Deafness</b> (DEF-nes):</span> <span class="glossdef">Loss of the ability to hear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2765"><span class="glossterm"><b>Decalcification</b> (de-kal-sif-ih-KA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Loss of calcium from bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2770"><span class="glossterm"><b>Decubitus</b> (deh-KU-bih-tus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lying down; a lateral decubitus position is lying down on one’s side.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2775"><span class="glossterm"><b>Decubitus ulcer</b> (de-KU-bih-tus UL-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation, sore, or ulcer in the skin over a bony part of the body; pressure ulcer; bedsore.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2780"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dedifferentiation</b> (de-dif-er-en-she-A-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Loss of differentiation of cells; reversion to a more primitive, embryonic cell type.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2785"><span class="glossterm"><b>Deep</b> (deep):</span> <span class="glossdef">Away from the surface of the body or an organ.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2790"><span class="glossterm"><b>Deep vein thrombosis</b> (deep vayn throm-BO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood clots form in a large vein, usually in the leg.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2795"><span class="glossterm"><b>Defecation</b> (def-eh-KA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Elimination of wastes and undigested foods through the anus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2800"><span class="glossterm"><b>Defense mechanism</b> (de-FENS meh-kan-NIZM):</span> <span class="glossdef">Unconscious technique (coping mechanism) that a person uses to resolve or conceal conflicts and anxiety.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="914" id="pagebreak_914"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2805"><span class="glossterm"><b>Defibrillation</b> (de-fib-rih-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Brief discharges of electricity are applied across the chest to stop dysrhythmias, such as ventricular fibrillation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2810"><span class="glossterm"><b>Deglutition</b> (de-glu-TIH-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Swallowing.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2815"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dehydration</b> (de-hi-DRA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive loss of water.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2820"><span class="glossterm"><b>Delirium</b> (deh-LEER-e-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Acute episodes of confused thinking, disorientation, agitation, and fearfulness. This usually is a reversible impairment.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2825"><span class="glossterm"><b>Delirium tremens</b> (deh-LEER-e-um TRE-menz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Anxiety, confusion in thinking, and tremors associated with withdrawal from excessive and habitual use of alcohol.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2830"><span class="glossterm"><b>Delusion</b> (deh-LU-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fixed, false belief that cannot be changed by logical reasoning or evidence.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2835"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dementia</b> (de-MEN-she-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Mental decline and deterioration.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2840"><span class="glossterm"><b>Demyelination</b> (de-mi-eh-lin-A-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Destruction of myelin on axons of nerve cells (as in multiple sclerosis).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2845"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dendrite</b> (DEN-drite):</span> <span class="glossdef">Microscopic branching portion of a nerve cell; first part of the nerve cell to receive the nervous impulse.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2850"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dendritic cell</b> (den-DRIH-tik sel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Antigen-presenting cell of the immune system; shows T and B cells what to attack.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2855"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dental caries</b> (DEN-tal KAH-reez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tooth decay.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2860"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dentalgia</b> (den-TAL-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pain in a tooth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2865"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dentibuccal</b> (den-tih-BUK-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the teeth and cheek.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2870"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dentin</b> (DEN-tin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Primary material found in teeth; surrounding the pulp and covered by enamel of the crown.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2875"><span class="glossterm"><b>Deoxygenated blood</b> (de-OX-ih-jeh-NA-ted blud):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood that is oxygen-poor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2880"><span class="glossterm"><b>Deoxyribonucleic acid</b> (de-ox-e-ri-bo-nu-KLE-ik AS-id):</span> <span class="glossdef">Genetic material (DNA) within the nucleus of a cell; controls cell division and protein synthesis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2885"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dependence</b> (de-PEND-ents):</span> <span class="glossdef">Prolonged use of a drug that may lead to physiologic need for its actions in the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2890"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dependent personality</b> (de-PEN-dant per-son-AL-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Personality disorder marked by an excessive need to be taken care of and a pattern of submissive and clinging behavior.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2895"><span class="glossterm"><b>Depressive disorders</b> (de-PRES-iv dis-OR-derz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Group of psychiatric disorders marked by the occurrence of one or more major depressive episodes without a history of mania or hypomania.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2900"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dermabrasion</b> (der-mah-BRA-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment for removal of superficial scars or wrinkles on the skin using sandpaper-like material.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls29200"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dermatillomania</b> (der-mah-til-o-MA-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Skin-picking disorder; an OCD-related disorder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2905"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dermatitis</b> (der-mah-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2910"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dermatologist</b> (der-mah-TOL-o-jist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specialist in the study (diagnosis and treatment) of skin disorders.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2915"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dermatology</b> (der-mah-TOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2920"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dermatophytosis</b> (der-mah-to-fi-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fungal infection of the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2925"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dermis</b> (DER-mis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Middle layer of the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2930"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dermoid cysts</b> (DER-moyd sists):</span> <span class="glossdef">Benign ovarian sacs arising from immature egg cells in the ovary and containing a variety of cell types; benign cystic teratomas.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2935"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diabetes insipidus</b> (di-ah-BE-teez in-SIP-ih-dus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of inadequate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) from the pituitary gland. Patients experience polyuria (excessive urination) and polydipsia (excessive thirst).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2940"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diabetes mellitus</b> (di-ah-BE-teez MEL-ih-tus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lack of insulin secretion (type 1) or improper utilization of insulin by cells (type 2) leads to hyperglycemia, glycosuria, polyuria, and polydipsia.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2945"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diabetic retinopathy</b> (di-ah-BEH-tik reh-tin-OP-ath-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease of the retina caused by diabetes mellitus; microaneurysms, hemorrhages, dilation of retinal veins, and neovascularization (new blood vessels) in the retina.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2950"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diagnosis</b> (di-ag-NO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Complete knowledge of a patient’s condition.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="915" id="pagebreak_915"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2955"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dialysis</b> (di-AL-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Separation of nitrogenous wastes from the blood when the kidneys no longer function; hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2960"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diameter</b> (di-AM-eh-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurement through the center of a circle (for example, the size of the opening of a blood vessel).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2965"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diaphoresis</b> (di-ah-for-E-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Profuse sweating.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2970"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diaphragm</b> (DI-ah-fram):</span> <span class="glossdef">Muscle separating the abdominal and thoracic cavities. The diaphragm moves up and down and aids in breathing.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2975"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diaphysis</b> (di-AF-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Shaft or midportion of a long bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2980"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diarrhea</b> (di-ah-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Frequent passage of loose, watery stools.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2985"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diastole</b> (di-AS-to-le):</span> <span class="glossdef">Relaxation phase of the heartbeat.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2990"><span class="glossterm"><b>Differentiation</b> (dif-er-en-she-A-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specialization of cells from immature to mature forms.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls2995"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diffuse</b> (di-FUS):</span> <span class="glossdef">Spread over a wide area.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3000"><span class="glossterm"><b>Digestion</b> (di-JEST-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Breakdown of complex foods to simpler forms.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3005"><span class="glossterm"><b>Digital rectal exam</b> (DIJ-eh-tal REK-tal ek-ZAM):</span> <span class="glossdef">Finger palpation through the anus and rectum to examine the prostate gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3010"><span class="glossterm"><b>Digital subtraction angiography</b> (DIJ-ih-tal sub-TRAK-shun an-je-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of using video equipment, a computer, and an x-ray machine to produce images of blood vessels before and after injecting contrast material.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3015"><span class="glossterm"><b>Digoxin</b> (dih-JOK-sin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that increases the strength and regularity of the heartbeat.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3020"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dilatation</b> (dih-lah-TA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Widening of a vessel or an opening.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3025"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dilation and curettage</b> (di-LA-shun and kur-eh-TAZH):</span> <span class="glossdef">Widening the cervix and scraping off the endometrial lining of the uterus; D&amp;C.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3030"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diphtheria</b> (dif-THE-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Acute infection of the throat and respiratory tract caused by diphtheria bacteria; characterized by formation of a thick membrane that obstructs the throat and breathing.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3035"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diplopia</b> (dip-LO-pe-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Double vision.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3040"><span class="glossterm"><b>Disc</b> (disc):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pad of cartilage between vertebrae.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3045"><span class="glossterm"><b>Discography</b> (disc-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray images of cervical or lumbar intervertebral discs after injection of contrast material into the interior of the disc.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3050"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dislocation</b> (dis-lo-KA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Displacement of a bone from its joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3055"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dissociative disorder</b> (dih-SO-she-ah-tiv dis-OR-der):</span> <span class="glossdef">Group of psychiatric disorders marked by a breakdown in memory, identity, or perception. Examples are identity disorder and dissociative amnesia.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3060"><span class="glossterm"><b>Distal</b> (DIS-tal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Far from the point of attachment to the trunk of the body or far from the beginning of a structure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3065"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diuresis</b> (di-u-RE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increased excretion of urine by the kidneys. A diuretic is an agent, such as tea, coffee, or water, that increases diuresis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3070"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diuretic</b> (di-u-RET-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that promotes or increases the production of urine (diuresis).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3075"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diverticula</b> (di-ver-TIH-ku-lah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small, pouch-like herniations through the muscular wall of a tubular organ such as the colon.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3080"><span class="glossterm"><b>Diverticulosis</b> (di-ver-tih-ku-LO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal outpouchings (diverticula) in the intestinal wall of the colon.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3085"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dopamine</b> (DO-pah-meen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Neurotransmitter in the central nervous system; deficient in patients with Parkinson disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3090"><span class="glossterm"><b>Doppler ultrasound</b> (DOP-ler UL-trah-sound):</span> <span class="glossdef">Method of focusing sound waves on blood vessels to measure blood flow.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3100"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dorsal</b> (DOR-sal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the back, or posterior, portion of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3105"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dorsiflexion</b> (dor-se-FLEK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Decreasing the angle of the ankle joint so that the foot moves upward, toward the knee or ceiling.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3110"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dose</b> (dose):</span> <span class="glossdef">Amount of drug administered, usually measured in milligrams.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3115"><span class="glossterm"><b>Down syndrome</b> (Down SIN-drohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chromosomal abnormality (trisomy 21); characteristics of patients with Down syndrome can include intellectual disability, developmental delays, and heart defects.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="916" id="pagebreak_916"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3120"><span class="glossterm"><b>Duodenal</b> (du-o-DE-nal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the duodenum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3125"><span class="glossterm"><b>Duodenum</b> (du-o-DE-num):</span> <span class="glossdef">First part of the small intestine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3130"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dura mater</b> (DUR-ahMAH-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Thick, outermost layer of the meninges surrounding the brain and spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3135"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dwarfism</b> (DWARF-izm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Short stature; height considerably below average. Congenital hyposecretion of growth hormone from the anterior pituitary gland may be a cause.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3140"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dyscrasia</b> (dis-KRA-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3145"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dysentery</b> (DIS-en-ter-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Painful, inflamed intestines commonly caused by bacterial infection.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3150"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dyskinesia</b> (dis-kih-NE-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Impairment of the ability to perform voluntary movements.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3155"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dyslexia</b> (dis-LEK-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Difficulty in reading, writing, and learning.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3160"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dysmenorrhea</b> (dis-men-o-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Painful, difficult menses (menstruation).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3165"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dyspareunia</b> (dis-pah-RU-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Painful sexual intercourse.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3170"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dyspepsia</b> (dis-PEP-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Painful digestion; indigestion.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3175"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dysphagia</b> (dis-FA-je-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Difficulty in swallowing.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3180"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dysphonia</b> (dis-FO-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal voice or sound produced when speaking.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3185"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dysphoria</b> (dis-FOR-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sadness, hopelessness, and depressive mood; feeling “low.”</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3190"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dysplasia</b> (dis-PLA-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of abnormal formation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3195"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dysplastic</b> (dis-PLAS-tik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to abnormal formation or development of cells; not clearly malignant.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3200"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dysplastic nevi</b> (dis-PLAS-tik NE-vi):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal moles with irregular borders, indistinct margins, and mixed coloration; often precursors of malignant melanomas.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3205"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dyspnea</b> (DISP-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Difficult breathing.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3210"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dysrhythmia</b> (dis-RITH-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal heart rhythm.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3215"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dysthymia</b> (dis-THI-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Depressive episodes, but not of the same intensity or duration as major depression.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3220"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dystocia</b> (dis-TO-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Difficult childbirth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3225"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dystrophy</b> (DIS-tro-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of abnormal development.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3230"><span class="glossterm"><b>Dysuria</b> (dis-U-re-a):</span> <span class="glossdef">Painful urination.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0030"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0030">E</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls3235"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ear thermometry</b> (ear ther-MOM-eh-tre):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurement of the temperature of the tympanic membrane by detection of infrared radiation from the eardrum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3245"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ecchymosis; <i>pl.</i> ecchymoses</b> (ek-ih-MO-sis; ek-ih-MO-seez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bleeding into the skin; a bruise.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3250"><span class="glossterm"><b>Eccrine sweat gland</b> (EK-rin swet gland):</span> <span class="glossdef">Major sweat gland in the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3255"><span class="glossterm"><b>Echocardiography</b> (ek-o-kar-de-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sound waves are used to image the structure of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3260"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ectopic pregnancy</b> (ek-TOP-ik PREG-nan-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pregnancy that is out of place (not in the uterus). A fallopian tube is the most common ectopic site.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3265"><span class="glossterm"><b>Eczema</b> (EK-zem-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic dermatitis of unknown etiology, marked by redness, blisters, scales, and scabs; atopic dermatitis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3270"><span class="glossterm"><b>Edema</b> (eh-DE-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal accumulation of fluid in tissue spaces.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3275"><span class="glossterm"><b>Efferent nerves</b> (EH-fer-ent nervz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Carry messages away from the brain and spinal cord; motor nerves.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3280"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ego</b> (E-go):</span> <span class="glossdef">Central, coordinating branch of the personality.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3285"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ejaculation</b> (eh-jak-u-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Ejection of sperm and fluid (semen) from the male urethra as a result of sexual stimulation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3290"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ejaculatory duct</b> (eh-JAK-u-lah-tor-e dukt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tube through which semen enters the male urethra.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3295"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electrocardiogram</b> (eh-lek-tro-KAR-de-o-gram):</span> <span class="glossdef">Record of the electricity within the heart.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="917" id="pagebreak_917"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3300"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electrocardiography</b> (eh-lek-tro-kar-de-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of recording the electricity within the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3305"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electrocauterization</b> (eh-lek-tro-kaw-ter-eh-ZA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Use of electricity to heat tissue during surgery to remove abnormal tissue growth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3310"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electrocautery</b> (eh-lek-tro-KAW-ter-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Use of a needle or snare heated by electric current to destroy or burn tissue (removal of warts, polyps).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3315"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electroencephalograph</b> (eh-lek-tro-en-SEF-al-o-graf):</span> <span class="glossdef">Instrument used to record the electricity in the brain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3320"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electroconvulsive therapy</b> (eh-lek-tro-kon-VUL-siv THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Electric current produces a convulsive seizure to treat mood disorders (depression or the depressive phase of bipolar disorder); used in patients who are resistant to drug therapy or when rapid response is needed.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3325"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electrodesiccation</b> (eh-lek-tro-deh-si-KA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Destruction of tissue by burning with an electric spark.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3330"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electroencephalogram</b> (eh-lek-tro-en-SEF-ah-lo-gram):</span> <span class="glossdef">Record of the electricity in the brain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3335"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electroencephalography</b> (eh-lek-tro-en-sef-al-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of recording the electricity in the brain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3340"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electrolyte</b> (eh-LEK-tro-lite):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chemical element that carries an electrical charge when dissolved in water. Examples are sodium (Na+), potassium (K+), and chloride (Cl-).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3345"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electromyography</b> (eh-lek-tro-mi-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of recording the electrical activity of muscle tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3350"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electron beam computed tomography</b> (eh-LEK-tron beem kom-PU-ted to-MOG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Electron beams and CT identify calcium deposits in and around coronary arteries to diagnose early coronary artery disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3355"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electron beams</b> (eh-LEK-tron beemz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Low-energy beams of radiation for treatment of skin or surface tumors.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3360"><span class="glossterm"><b>Electrophoresis</b> (eh-lek-tro-fo-RE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Technique used to separate serum proteins by electrical charge and size.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3365"><span class="glossterm"><b>Elimination</b> (e-lim-in-A-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of materials from the body; in the digestive system, the removal of indigestible materials as feces.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3370"><span class="glossterm"><b>ELIZA</b> (eh-LI-zah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Test to detect anti-HIV antibodies in blood. This is a screening test for AIDS.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3375"><span class="glossterm"><b>Embolus; <i>pl.</i> emboli</b> (EM-bo-lus; EM-bo-li):</span> <span class="glossdef">Clot of material that travels through the bloodstream and suddenly blocks a vessel.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3380"><span class="glossterm"><b>Embryo</b> (EM-bre-o):</span> <span class="glossdef">Stage in prenatal development from two to eight weeks.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3385"><span class="glossterm"><b>Embryonal carcinoma</b> (em-bre-ON-al kar-sih-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Type of testicular cancer.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3390"><span class="glossterm"><b>Emetic</b> (eh-MET-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that promotes vomiting.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3395"><span class="glossterm"><b>Emphysema</b> (em-fi-ZE-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hyperinflation of air sacs with destruction of alveolar walls.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3400"><span class="glossterm"><b>Empyema</b> (em-pi-E-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pus in the pleural space (cavity) surrounding the lungs; pyothorax.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3405"><span class="glossterm"><b>Emulsification</b> (e-mul-sif-ik-A-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Breakdown of large fat globules into smaller, digestible particles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3410"><span class="glossterm"><b>En bloc resection</b> (en blok re-SEK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of a tumor with a large area of surrounding tissue containing lymph nodes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3415"><span class="glossterm"><b>Enamel</b> (e-NAM-el):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hard outermost layer of a tooth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3420"><span class="glossterm"><b>Encapsulated</b> (en-KAP-su-la-ted):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surrounded by a capsule; benign tumors are encapsulated.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3425"><span class="glossterm"><b>Encephalitis</b> (en-seh-fah-LI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the brain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3430"><span class="glossterm"><b>Encephalopathy</b> (en-seh-fah-LOP-ath-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease of the brain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3435"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endarterectomy</b> (en-dar-ter-EK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical removal of plaque from the inner layer of an artery.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3440"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endemic goiter</b> (em-DEM-ik GOY-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enlargement of the thyroid gland due to lack of iodine in the diet.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3445"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endocarditis</b> (en-do-kar-DI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the endocardium (inner lining of the heart).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3450"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endocardium</b> (en-do-KAR-de-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inner lining of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3455"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endocervicitis</b> (en-do-ser-vih-SI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the inner lining of the cervix (lower, neck-like portion of the uterus).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3460"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endocrine drug</b> (EN-do-krin drug):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone or hormone-like drug; androgens, estrogens, and glucocorticoids.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3465"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endocrine glands</b> (EN-do-krin glanz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Glands that secrete hormones within the body, directly into the bloodstream.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="918" id="pagebreak_918"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3470"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endocrinologist</b> (en-do-crin-OL-o-jist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Medical specialist in the diagnosis and treatment of endocrine gland disorders.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3475"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endocrinology</b> (en-do-krin-OL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the endocrine glands.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3480"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endodontist</b> (en-do-DON-tist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Dentist specializing in the inner parts of a tooth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3485"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endolymph</b> (EN-do-limf):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fluid within the labyrinth (canals) of the inner ear; conducts sound waves.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3490"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endometrial cancer</b> (en-do-ME-tre-al KAN-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of the uterine lining (adenocarcinoma); carcinoma of the endometrium.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3495"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endometriosis</b> (en-do-me-tre-O-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of endometrial tissue located outside the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3500"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endometritis</b> (en-do-meh-TRI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the inner lining of the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3505"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endometrium</b> (en-do-ME-tre-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inner mucous membrane lining of the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3510"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endoplasmic reticulum</b> (en-do-PLAZ-mik reh-TIK-u-lum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Network of canals within the cytoplasm of the cell; site of protein synthesis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3515"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endoscope</b> (EN-do-skope):</span> <span class="glossdef">Instrument to visually examine the interior of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3520"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endoscopic ultrasonography</b> (en-do-SKOP-ik ul-trah-so-NOG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Use of an endoscope combined with ultrasound to examine the organs of the gastrointestinal tract.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3525"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endoscopy</b> (en-DOS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of visual examination within the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3530"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endothelium</b> (en-do-THE-le-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Innermost lining of blood vessels.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3535"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endotracheal</b> (en-do-TRA-ke-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to within the trachea.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3540"><span class="glossterm"><b>Endotracheal intubation</b> (en-do-TRA-ke-al in-tu-BA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tube is placed through the mouth and throat into the trachea to establish an airway.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3545"><span class="glossterm"><b>Enteritis</b> (en-teh-RI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the small intestine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3550"><span class="glossterm"><b>Enterocolitis</b> (en-ter-o-ko-LI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the small intestine and colon.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3555"><span class="glossterm"><b>Enteroenterostomy</b> (en-ter-o-en-ter-OS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">New opening between two previously unconnected parts of the small intestine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3560"><span class="glossterm"><b>Enucleation</b> (e-nu-kle-A-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of the entire eyeball.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3565"><span class="glossterm"><b>Enuresis</b> (en-u-RE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bedwetting; literally, “in urine.”</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3570"><span class="glossterm"><b>Enzyme</b> (EN-zime):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chemical that speeds up a reaction between substances.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3575"><span class="glossterm"><b>Eosinophil</b> (e-o-SIH-no-fil):</span> <span class="glossdef">White blood cell (leukocyte) containing dark granules that stain rosy with eosin (a reddish dye); associated with allergic reactions.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3580"><span class="glossterm"><b>Eosinophilia</b> (e-o-sih-no-FIL-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increase in numbers of eosinophils in the bloodstream.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3585"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ependymal cell</b> (eh-PEN-dih-mal sel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Glial cell that lines the membranes within the brain and spinal cord and helps form cerebrospinal fluid.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3590"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epidermis</b> (ep-ih-DER-mis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Outer layer of the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3595"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epidermoid</b> (ep-ih-DER-moyd):</span> <span class="glossdef">Resembling epidermis or the outer layer of skin. Epidermoid tumors are composed of thin, plate-like cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3600"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epidermolysis</b> (ep-ih-der-MOL-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Loosening of outer layer of the skin with formation of large blisters (bullae).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3605"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epididymis</b> (ep-ih-DIH-dih-mis):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of a pair of long, tightly coiled tubes lying on top of each testis. It carries sperm to the vas deferens.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3610"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epididymitis</b> (ep-ih-dih-dih-MI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of an epididymis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3615"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epidural hematoma</b> (ep-eh-DU-ral he-mah-TO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collection of blood located above the dura mater.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3620"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epigastric</b> (ep-ih-GAS-trik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to above or upon the stomach.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3625"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epigastric region</b> (ep-ih-GAS-trik re-jen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Middle upper abdominopelvic region (above the stomach).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3630"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epiglottis</b> (ep-ih-GLOT-is):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lid-like piece of cartilage that covers the voice box and windpipe when a person is swallowing.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3635"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epiglottitis</b> (ep-ih-glot-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the epiglottis.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="919" id="pagebreak_919"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3640"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epilepsy</b> (EP-ih-lep-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Brain disorder marked by recurrent attacks (seizures) of abnormal nervous impulses.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3645"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epinephrine</b> (ep-ih-NEF-rin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the adrenal gland in response to stress and physical injury; adrenaline. It is part of the body’s “fight or flight” reaction.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3650"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epiphyseal plate</b> (ep-ih-FIZ-e-al plate):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cartilaginous area at the ends of long bones where lengthwise growth takes place in the immature skeleton.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3655"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epiphysis</b> (eh-PIF-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Each end of a long bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3660"><span class="glossterm"><b>Episiotomy</b> (ep-is-e-OT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of the vulva (perineum) to widen the opening of the vagina during a difficult childbirth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3665"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epistaxis</b> (ep-ih-STAX-is):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nosebleed.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3670"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epithelial cells</b> (ep-ih-THE-le-al sels):</span> <span class="glossdef">Skin cells that cover the outside of the body and line the internal surfaces of organs; epithelium.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3675"><span class="glossterm"><b>Epithelium</b> (ep-ih-THE-le-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Layer of cells covering the external surface of the body and lining the hollow tubes within the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3680"><span class="glossterm"><b>Erectile dysfunction</b> (e-REK-til dis-FUNK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inability of an adult male to achieve an erection; impotence.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3685"><span class="glossterm"><b>Erosion</b> (eh-RO-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Wearing away or loss of epidermis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3690"><span class="glossterm"><b>Eructation</b> (e-ruk-TA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Gas expelled from the stomach through the mouth; belching or burping.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3695"><span class="glossterm"><b>Erythema</b> (eh-rih-THE-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of redness of the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3700"><span class="glossterm"><b>Erythematous</b> (eh-rih-THE-mah-tus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to redness of the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3705"><span class="glossterm"><b>Erythroblast</b> (eh-RITH-ro-blast):</span> <span class="glossdef">Immature, developing red blood cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3710"><span class="glossterm"><b>Erythroblastosis fetalis</b> (eh-rith-thro-blast-O-sis fe-TAL-is):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hemolytic disease of the newborn caused by a blood group (Rh factor) incompatibility between the mother and fetus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3715"><span class="glossterm"><b>Erythrocyte</b> (eh-RITH-ro-site):</span> <span class="glossdef">Red blood cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3720"><span class="glossterm"><b>Erythrocyte sedimentation rate</b> (eh-RITH-ro-site sed-ih-men-TA-shunrate):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measures the time it takes for erythrocytes to settle to the bottom of a test tube; useful in detection of inflammatory disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3725"><span class="glossterm"><b>Erythromycin</b> (eh-rith-ro-MI-sin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Antibiotic that is extracted from a red (erythr/o) mold (-mycin).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3730"><span class="glossterm"><b>Erythropenia</b> (eh-rith-ro-PE-ne-a):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficiency of red blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3735"><span class="glossterm"><b>Erythropoiesis</b> (eh-rith-ro-poy-E-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Formation of red blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3740"><span class="glossterm"><b>Erythropoietin</b> (eh-rith-ro-PO-eh-tin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the kidney to stimulate red blood cell production in bone marrow.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3745"><span class="glossterm"><b>Esophageal</b> (eh-sof-ah-JE-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the esophagus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3750"><span class="glossterm"><b>Esophageal atresia</b> (eh-sof-ah-JE-al a-TRE-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Congenital absence of the normal opening from the esophagus to the stomach.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3755"><span class="glossterm"><b>Esophageal cancer</b> (eh-sof-ah-JE-al KAN-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of the esophagus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3760"><span class="glossterm"><b>Esophageal varices</b> (eh-sof-ah-JE-al VAR-ih-seez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Swollen, twisted veins at the lower end of the esophagus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3765"><span class="glossterm"><b>Esophagus</b> (eh-SOF-ah-gus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tube that carries food from the pharynx (throat) to the stomach.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3770"><span class="glossterm"><b>Esotropia</b> (es-o-TRO-pe-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Turning inward of one or both pupils; “cross eyes.”</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3775"><span class="glossterm"><b>Essential hypertension</b> (e-SEN-shul hi-per-TEN-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">High blood pressure due to no apparent cause.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3780"><span class="glossterm"><b>Estradiol</b> (es-trah-DI-ol):</span> <span class="glossdef">Estrogen (female hormone) secreted by the ovaries.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3785"><span class="glossterm"><b>Estrogen</b> (ES-tro-jen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Female hormone produced by the ovaries; promotes secondary sex characteristics and supports reproductive tissues.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3790"><span class="glossterm"><b>Estrogenic</b> (es-tro-JEN-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to producing estrogen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3795"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ethmoid bone</b> (ETH-moyd bone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Thin, delicate bone that supports the nasal cavity and forms part of the orbits of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3800"><span class="glossterm"><b>Etiology</b> (e-te-OL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the cause of disease.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="920" id="pagebreak_920"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3805"><span class="glossterm"><b>Euphoria</b> (u-FOR-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Exaggerated feeling of well-being; elevated mood, “high.”</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3810"><span class="glossterm"><b>Eustachian tube</b> (u-STA-shun toob):</span> <span class="glossdef">Channel between the middle ear and the throat; auditory tube.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3815"><span class="glossterm"><b>Euthymia</b> (u-THI-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Normal, nondepressed, positive mood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3820"><span class="glossterm"><b>Euthyroid</b> (u-THI-royd):</span> <span class="glossdef">Normal thyroid function.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3825"><span class="glossterm"><b>Eversion</b> (e-VER-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Turning outward.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3830"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ewing sarcoma</b> (U-wing sar-KO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rare malignant tumor arising in bone, most often occurring in children.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3835"><span class="glossterm"><b>Exanthematous viral disease</b> (eg-zan-THEM-ah-tus VI-ral dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rash (exanthem) of skin due to viral infection; measles (rubeola) and chicken pox (varicella) are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3840"><span class="glossterm"><b>Excision</b> (ek-SIZH-un):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of cutting out; removal; resection.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3845"><span class="glossterm"><b>Excisional biopsy</b> (ek-SIZH-un-al BI-op-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of tumor and a margin of normal tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3850"><span class="glossterm"><b>Exenteration</b> (eks-en-teh-RA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of all internal organs within a cavity, such as the pelvic cavity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3855"><span class="glossterm"><b>Exfoliative cytology</b> (eks-FO-le-a-tiv si-TOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cells are scraped from a region of suspected disease and examined under a microscope.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3860"><span class="glossterm"><b>Exhalation</b> (ex-hal-A-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of breathing out; expiration.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3865"><span class="glossterm"><b>Exhibitionistic disorder</b> (ek-sih-BISH-un-izm dis-OR-der):</span> <span class="glossdef">Compulsive need to expose one’s genitals.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3870"><span class="glossterm"><b>Exocrine glands</b> (EK-so-krin glanz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Glands that secrete chemicals to the outside of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3875"><span class="glossterm"><b>Exophthalmometry</b> (ek-sof-thal-MOM-eh-tre):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurement of eyeball protrusion.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3880"><span class="glossterm"><b>Exophthalmos</b> (ek-sof-THAL-mos):</span> <span class="glossdef">Protrusion of the eyeball; sign of hyperthyroidism.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3885"><span class="glossterm"><b>Exostosis</b> (ek-sos-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bony growth (benign) arising from the surface of bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3890"><span class="glossterm"><b>Exotropia</b> (ek-so-TRO-pe-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Turning of one or both pupils to the side or outward.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3895"><span class="glossterm"><b>Expectoration</b> (ex-pek-tor-RA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Coughing up of sputum (mucus) from the throat and respiratory tract.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3900"><span class="glossterm"><b>Expiration</b> (ex-pih-RA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of breathing out; exhalation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3905"><span class="glossterm"><b>Extension</b> (ek-STEN-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increasing the angle between two bones; straightening out a limb.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3910"><span class="glossterm"><b>External beam radiation</b> (eks-TER-nal beam ra-de-A-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radiation applied to a tumor from a distant source, such as a machine (linear accelerator).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3915"><span class="glossterm"><b>Extracorporeal circulation</b> (eks-trah-kor-POR-e-al ser-ku-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Use of a heart-lung machine to divert blood from the heart and lungs during open heart surgery.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3920"><span class="glossterm"><b>Exudate</b> (EX-su-dayt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fluid, cells, and other substances (pus) that filter from cells or capillaries and ooze into lesions or areas of inflammation.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0035"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0035">F</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls3925"><span class="glossterm"><b>Facial</b> (FA-shul):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the face.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3930"><span class="glossterm"><b>Facial bones</b> (FA-shal bones):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bones of the face; lacrimal, mandibular, maxillary, nasal, vomer, and zygomatic bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3935"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fallopian tube</b> (fah-LO-pe-an toob):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of a pair of ducts through which the ovum travels to the uterus; also called oviduct.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3940"><span class="glossterm"><b>Family therapy</b> (FAM-il-e THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment of an entire family to resolve and understand their conflicts and problems.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3945"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fascia</b> (FASH-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fibrous membrane separating and enveloping muscle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3950"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fasciotomy</b> (fash-e-OT-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of fascia.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3955"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fasting plasma glucose</b> (FAS-ting PLAS-mah GLU-kose):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measures circulating glucose level in a patient who has fasted at least 8 hours. Also known as fasting blood sugar test.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3960"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fatty acids</b> (FAT-te AS-idz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Substances produced when fats are digested.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="921" id="pagebreak_921"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3965"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fecal transplant</b> (FE-kal TRANZ-plant):</span> <span class="glossdef">Transfer of stool from a healthy donor into the gastrointestinal tract of a recipient. After transplant, normal stool bacteria populates the colon of the patient.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3970"><span class="glossterm"><b>Feces</b> (FE-seez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Solid wastes; stools.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3975"><span class="glossterm"><b>Femoral</b> (FEM-or-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the femur.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3980"><span class="glossterm"><b>Femur</b> (FE-mur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Thigh bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3985"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fertilization</b> (fer-tih-lih-ZA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Union of the egg (ovum) and sperm.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3990"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fetal monitoring</b> (FE-tal MON-it-or-ing):</span> <span class="glossdef">Continuous recording of the fetal heart rate and maternal uterine contractions to assess fetal status and the progress of labor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls3995"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fetal presentation</b> (FE-tal pres-en-TA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Manner in which the fetus enters the birth canal.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4000"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fetishistic disorder</b> (feh-tish-IS-tik dis-OR-der):</span> <span class="glossdef">Use of nonliving objects, such as articles of clothing, as substitutes for a human sexual love object.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4005"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fetus</b> (FE-tus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Stage in prenatal development from 8 weeks to birth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4010"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fiberoptic colonoscopy</b> (fi-ber-OP-tik ko-lon-OS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Visual examination of the colon using a fiberoptic instrument (endoscope).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4015"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fibrillation</b> (fib-rih-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Random, rapid, inefficient, and irregular contractions of the atria or ventricles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4020"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fibrin</b> (FI-brin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Protein threads that form the basis of a blood clot.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4025"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fibrinogen</b> (fi-BRIN-o-jen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Plasma protein that is converted to fibrin in the clotting process.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4030"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fibrocystic breast disease</b> (fi-bro-SIS-tik brest dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Numerous small sacs of fluid surrounded by dense strands of fibrous tissue in the breast.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4035"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fibroids</b> (FI-broydz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Benign tumors of the uterus; leiomyomas.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4040"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fibromyalgia</b> (fi-bro-mi-AL-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic pain and stiffness in muscles and fibrous tissue, especially in the shoulders, neck, hips, and knees.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4045"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fibrosarcoma</b> (fi-bro-sar-KO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of fibrous or connective tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4050"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fibrosis</b> (fi-BRO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition (proliferation) of fibrous connective tissue; pulmonary fibrosis occurs in the lung as a side effect of radiation for lung cancer.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4055"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fibula</b> (FIB-u-lah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Smaller of the two lower leg bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4060"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fibular</b> (FIB-u-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the fibula.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4065"><span class="glossterm"><b>Filtration</b> (fil-TRA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process by which some substances, but not all, pass through a filter or other type of material.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4070"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fimbriae</b> (FIM-bre-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Finger- or fringe-like projections at the end of the fallopian tubes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4075"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fine needle aspiration</b> (fine NE-dil as-pih-RA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Withdrawal of fluid or tissue from a cyst or solid mass by suction with a needle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4080"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fissure</b> (FISH-ur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Groove or crack-like sore.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4085"><span class="glossterm"><b>Flagellum</b> (fla-JEL-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hair-like projection on a sperm cell that makes it motile.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4090"><span class="glossterm"><b>Flatus</b> (FLA-tus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Gas expelled through the anus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4095"><span class="glossterm"><b>Flexion</b> (FLEK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Decreasing the angle between two bones; bending a limb.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4100"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fluorescein angiography</b> (flu-o-RES-e-in an-je-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Intravenous injection of fluorescein (a dye) followed by serial photographs of the retina through dilated pupils.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4105"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fluoroscopy</b> (flu-ROS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of using x-rays to produce an image on a fluorescent screen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4110"><span class="glossterm"><b>Flutter</b> (FLUH-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rapid, but regular contractions of the heart muscle, usually of the atria.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4115"><span class="glossterm"><b>Follicle-stimulating hormone</b> (FOL-lik-il STIM-u-la-ting HOR-mone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Secreted by the pituitary gland to stimulate hormone secretion and egg production by the ovaries.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4120"><span class="glossterm"><b>Follicular</b> (fo-LIK-u-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to small, round gland-type clusters.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4125"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fontanelle</b> (fon-tan-EL):</span> <span class="glossdef">Soft spot between skull bones of an infant.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="922" id="pagebreak_922"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4130"><span class="glossterm"><b>Foramen magnum</b> (for-A-men MAG-num):</span> <span class="glossdef">Opening of the occipital bone through which the spinal cord passes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4135"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fovea centralis</b> (FO-ve-ah sen-TRAH-lis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tiny pit or depression in the retina that is the region of clearest vision.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4140"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fractionation</b> (frak-shah-NA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Method of administering radiation treatment in small, repeated doses rather than in a few large doses.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4145"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fracture</b> (FRAK-shur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Traumatic breaking of a bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4150"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fraternal twins</b> (frah-TER-nal twinz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Two infants resulting from fertilization of two separate ova by two separate sperm cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4155"><span class="glossterm"><b>Free association</b> (free ah-so-she-A-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Psychoanalytic technique in which a patient is encouraged to reveal thoughts one after another without censorship.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4160"><span class="glossterm"><b>Frontal bone</b> (FRUN-tal bone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Skull bone that forms the forehead and bony sockets that contain the eyes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4165"><span class="glossterm"><b>Frontal plane</b> (FRUN-tal playn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Vertical plane dividing the body or structure into anterior and posterior portions; coronal plane.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4170"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fugue</b> (fuge):</span> <span class="glossdef">Flight from customary surroundings; dissociative disorder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4175"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fulguration</b> (ful-gu-RA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Destruction of tissue using electric sparks generated by a high-frequency current.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4180"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fundus of the eye</b> (FUN-dus of the eye):</span> <span class="glossdef">Posterior, inner part of the eye; visualized with an ophthalmoscope.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4185"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fungal tests</b> (FUNG-al tests):</span> <span class="glossdef">Scrapings from skin lesions, hair specimens, or nail clippings are sent to a laboratory for culture and microscopic identification of fungal infection.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4190"><span class="glossterm"><b>Fungating tumor</b> (fun-GA-ting TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Gross description of tumor growth in which cells pile one on top of another and project from the tissue surface.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0040"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0040">G</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls4195"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gait</b> (gate):</span> <span class="glossdef">Manner of walking.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4200"><span class="glossterm"><b>Galactorrhea</b> (gah-lak-to-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive or abnormal secretion of milk after breast-feeding has ended.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4205"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gallbladder</b> (GAWL-blah-der):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small sac under the liver; stores bile.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4210"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gamete</b> (GAM-eet):</span> <span class="glossdef">Reproductive cell (ovum or sperm).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4215"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gamma camera</b> (GAM-ah KAM-er-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Machine to detect gamma rays given off by radiopharmaceuticals during scanning for diagnostic purposes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4220"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gamma rays</b> (GAM-ah rays):</span> <span class="glossdef">High-energy rays emitted by radioactive substances in tracer studies.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4225"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ganglion cyst</b> (GANG-le-on sist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fluid-filled sac arising from joint capsules or tendons; most common in the wrist.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4230"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ganglion; <i>pl.</i> ganglia</b> (GANG-le-on):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collection of nerve cell bodies in the peripheral nervous system.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4235"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gangrene</b> (gang-GREEN):</span> <span class="glossdef">Death of tissue associated with loss of blood supply.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4240"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastrectomy</b> (gas-TREK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal or excision of the stomach.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4245"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastric</b> (GAS-trik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the stomach.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4250"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastric cancer</b> (GAS-trik KAN-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of the stomach.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4255"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastroenteritis</b> (gas-tro-en-teh-RI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the stomach and intestines.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4260"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastroenterology</b> (gas-tro-en-teh-ROL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the stomach and intestines.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4265"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastroesophageal reflux disease:</b> (gas-tro-eh-sof-ah-JE-al RE-flux dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Solids and fluids return to the mouth from the stomach; GERD.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4270"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastrointestinal drug</b> (gas-tro-in-TEST-tih-nal drug):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that treats conditions of the stomach and intestinal tract.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4275"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastrointestinal endoscopy</b> (gas-tro-in-TES-tih-nal en-DOS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Visual examination of the stomach and intestines (GI tract) using an endoscope; esophagogastroduodenoscopy, colonoscopy, and sigmoidoscopy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4280"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastrointestinal tract</b> (gas-tro-in-TES-tih-nal trakt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Series of organs that carry food from the mouth to the anus.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="923" id="pagebreak_923"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4285"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastrojejunostomy</b> (gas-tro-jeh-ju-NOS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">New surgical connection (anastomosis) between the stomach and the jejunum (second part of the small intestine).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4290"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastroparesis</b> (gas-tro-par-E-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Loss of motility of the stomach muscles, occurring as a long-term secondary complication of diabetes mellitus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4295"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastrorrhagia</b> (gas-tro-RA-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hemorrhage of blood (excessive bleeding) from the stomach.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4300"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastrostomy</b> (gas-TROS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">New opening of the stomach through the abdominal wall to the outside of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4305"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gastrotomy</b> (gas-TROT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of the stomach.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4310"><span class="glossterm"><b>Generic name</b> (jeh-NER-ikname):</span> <span class="glossdef">Legal, noncommercial name for a drug.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls43145"><span class="glossterm"><b>Generalized anxiety disorder</b> (JEH-ner-al-ized ang-ZI-et-e dis-OR-der):</span> <span class="glossdef">Characterized by chronic anxiety and exaggerated worry and tension.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4315"><span class="glossterm"><b>Genes</b> (jeenz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Regions of DNA within each chromosome.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4320"><span class="glossterm"><b>Genetic screening</b> (jeh-NET-ik SCRE-ning):</span> <span class="glossdef">Family members are tested to determine whether they have inherited a cancer-causing gene.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4325"><span class="glossterm"><b>Genitalia</b> (jeh-nih-TA-le-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Reproductive organs (genitals).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4330"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gestation</b> (jes-TA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Time period from fertilization of the ovum to birth; pregnancy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4335"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gigantism</b> (ji-GANT-ih-zom):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hypersecretion of growth hormone from the anterior pituitary gland before puberty, leading to abnormal overgrowth of body tissues.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4340"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gingivectomy</b> (jin-jih-VEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of gum disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4345"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gingivitis</b> (jin-jih-VIT-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of gums.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4350"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glans penis</b> (glanz PE-nis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sensitive tip of the penis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4355"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glaucoma</b> (glaw-KO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increased intraocular pressure that results in damage to the retina and optic nerve with loss of vision.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4360"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glial cell</b> (GLE-al sel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Supportive and connective nerve cell that does not carry nervous impulses. Examples are astrocytes, microglial cells, ependymal cells, and oligodendrocytes. Glial cells can reproduce themselves, as opposed to neurons.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4365"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glioblastoma</b> (gle-o-blah-STO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant brain tumor of immature glial cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4370"><span class="glossterm"><b>Globulin</b> (GLOB-u-lin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Plasma protein; alpha, beta, and gamma (immune) globulins are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4375"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glomerular capsule</b> (glo-MER-u-lar KAP-sul):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cup-like structure that surrounds each glomerulus; collects the material that is filtered from the blood through the walls of the glomerulus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4380"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glomerulonephritis</b> (glo-mer-u-lo-nef-RI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of glomeruli in the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4385"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glomerulus; <i>pl.</i> glomeruli</b> (glo-MER-u-lus; glo-MER-u-li):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tiny ball of capillaries (microscopic blood vessels) in the kidney. As blood flows through each glomerulus, waste materials and other substances are filtered from the bloodstream.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4390"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glossectomy</b> (glos-EK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of the tongue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4395"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glottis</b> (GLOT-is):</span> <span class="glossdef">Slit-like opening between the vocal cords of the larynx.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4400"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glucagon</b> (GLU-kah-gon):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the pancreas (alpha islet cells); increases blood glucose (sugar) by conversion of glycogen to glucose.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4405"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glucocorticoid</b> (glu-ko-KOR-tih-koyd):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone from the adrenal cortex that raises blood sugar and reduces tissue inflammation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4410"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gluconeogenesis</b> (glu-ko-ne-o-JEN-eh-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of producing new sugar from fats and proteins; occurs mainly in the liver.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4415"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glucose</b> (GLU-kohs):</span> <span class="glossdef">Simple sugar; necessary as a source of energy for body cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4420"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glucose tolerance test</b> (GLU-kohs TOL-er-ants test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measures the glucose levels in a blood sample taken at various intervals from a patient who has previously ingested glucose.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="924" id="pagebreak_924"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4425"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glycemic</b> (gli-SE-mik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to blood sugar.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4430"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glycogen</b> (GLI-ko-jen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Storage form of glucose (sugar); produces glucose when it is broken down (glycogenolysis) in liver cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4435"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glycogenolysis</b> (gli-ko-je-NOL-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Breakdown of glycogen to release sugar.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4440"><span class="glossterm"><b>Glycosuria</b> (gli-kohs-U-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sugar in the urine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4445"><span class="glossterm"><b>Goiter</b> (GOY-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enlargement of the thyroid gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4450"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gonad</b> (GO-nad):</span> <span class="glossdef">Female or male reproductive organ that produces sex cells and hormones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4455"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gonadotropin</b> (go-nad-o-TRO-pin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland and acting on the ovaries or testes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4460"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gonorrhea</b> (gon-o-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sexually transmitted infection (STI) involving inflammation of genital tract mucosa, caused by infection with gonococci (berry-shaped bacteria).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4465"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gouty arthritis</b> (GOW-te ar-THRI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation and painful swelling in and around joints caused by the deposition of uric acid crystals.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4470"><span class="glossterm"><b>Grading of tumors</b> (GRA-ding of TU-morz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Evaluating the microscopic appearance of tumor cells to determine their degree of malignant transformation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4475"><span class="glossterm"><b>Granulocyte</b> (GRAN-u-lo-site):</span> <span class="glossdef">White blood cell with cytoplasmic granules; neutrophil, eosinophil, and basophil.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4480"><span class="glossterm"><b>Granulocytopenia</b> (gran-u-lo-si-to-PE-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficiency of granulocytes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4485"><span class="glossterm"><b>Granulocytosis</b> (gran-u-lo-si-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increased numbers of granulocytes in the blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4490"><span class="glossterm"><b>Graves disease</b> (GRAVZ dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hyperfunctioning of the thyroid gland; thyrotoxicosis. This is the most common type of hyperthyroidism.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4495"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gray</b> (gra):</span> <span class="glossdef">Unit of absorbed radiation dose.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4500"><span class="glossterm"><b>Group therapy</b> (groop THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Patients with similar problems gain insight into their personalities through discussion and interaction together.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4505"><span class="glossterm"><b>Growth hormone</b> (growth HOR-mone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Secreted by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland; somatotropin. It stimulates the growth of bones and soft tissues.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4510"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gynecologist</b> (gi-neh-KOL-o-jist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specialist in the study of disorders of the female reproductive system.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4515"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gynecology</b> (gi-neh-KOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the disorders of the female reproductive system.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4520"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gynecomastia</b> (gi-neh-ko-MAS-te-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Female-like breast enlargement in a male.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4525"><span class="glossterm"><b>Gyrus; <i>pl.</i> gyri</b> (JI-rus; JI-re):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sheet of nerve cells that produces a rounded ridge on the surface of the cerebral cortex; convolution.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0045"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0045">H</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls4530"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hair follicle</b> (hair FOL-ih-kul):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sac within which each hair grows.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4535"><span class="glossterm"><b>Half-life</b> (HAF-life):</span> <span class="glossdef">Time required for a radioactive substance to lose half its radioactivity by disintegration.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4540"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hallucination</b> (hah-lu-sih-NA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">False or unreal sensory perception; hearing voices and seeing things.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4545"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hallucinogen</b> (hah-LU-sih-no-jen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Substance that produces hallucinations.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4550"><span class="glossterm"><b>Haversian canals</b> (hah-VER-zhan kah-NALZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Minute spaces filled with blood vessels; found in compact bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4555"><span class="glossterm"><b>Heart block</b> (hart blok):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal heart rhythm where the heart beats too slowly (bradycardia) because of interruption of electrical signals.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4560"><span class="glossterm"><b>Heart transplantation</b> (hart tranz-plan-TA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Donor heart is transferred to a recipient.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4565"><span class="glossterm"><b>Helper T cell</b> (HEL-per T sel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lymphocyte that aids B cells and stimulates T cells; CD4+ T cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4570"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemarthrosis</b> (hem-ar-THRO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of blood in a joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4575"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hematemesis</b> (he-mah-TEM-eh-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Vomiting blood.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="925" id="pagebreak_925"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4580"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hematochezia</b> (he-mah-to-KE-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Passage of bright red blood from the rectum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4585"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hematocrit</b> (he-MAH-to-krit):</span> <span class="glossdef">Percentage of red blood cells in a given volume of blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4590"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hematology</b> (he-mah-TOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of blood and blood disorders.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4595"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hematoma</b> (he-mah-TO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collection or mass of blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4600"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hematopoiesis</b> (he-mah-to-poy-E-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Formation of blood cells in bone marrow.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4605"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hematopoietic stem cell</b> (he-mah-to-poy-EH-tik stem sel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cell in the bone marrow that gives rise to all types of blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4610"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hematopoietic stem cell transplant</b> (he-mah-to-poy-E-tik stem sel TRANS-plant):</span> <span class="glossdef">Peripheral stem cells found in the blood of a compatible donor are administered into the vein of a recipient.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4615"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hematuria</b> (hem-ah-TU-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood in the urine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4620"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemianopsia</b> (hem-e-an-OP-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Absence of vision for one half, right or left, of an individual’s field of vision.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4625"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemiglossectomy</b> (hem-e-glos-SEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal (resection) of half the tongue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4630"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemiparesis</b> (hem-e-pah-RE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Slight paralysis of the right or left half of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4635"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemiplegia</b> (hem-e-PLE-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Paralysis of the right or left half of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4640"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemochromatosis</b> (he-mo-kro-mah-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive deposits of iron throughout the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4645"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemodialysis</b> (he-mo-di-AL-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of nitrogenous waste from the blood in patients whose kidneys have stopped functioning. Blood leaves the body and circulates through a machine that removes wastes before sending the blood back into the body through a vein.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4650"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemoglobin</b> (HE-mo-glo-bin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood protein containing iron; carries oxygen in red blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4655"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemoglobin test</b> (HE-mo-glo-bin test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Total amount of hemoglobin in a sample of blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4660"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemoglobinopathy</b> (he-mo-glo-bin-OP-ah-the):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease or defect of hemoglobin production. Sickle cell anemia is an example.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4665"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemolysis</b> (he-MOL-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Destruction of red blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4670"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemolytic anemia</b> (he-mo-LIH-tik ah-NE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Reduction in erythrocytes due to excessive destruction of red blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11490"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemolytic disease of the newborn</b> (he-mo-LIH-tic dih-ZEEZ of the NU-born):</span> <span class="glossdef">Destruction of red blood cells in the newborn caused by a blood group (Rh factor) incompatibility between the mother and the fetus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4675"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemophilia</b> (he-mo-FIL-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hereditary disease of blood clotting failure with abnormal bleeding. Affected individuals are lacking a blood clotting factor (VIII or IX).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4680"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemoptysis</b> (he-MOP-tih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Spitting up blood from the respiratory tract.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4685"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemorrhage</b> (HEM-or-ij):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bursting forth or excessive flow of blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4690"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemorrhoids</b> (HEM-uh-roydz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Swollen, twisted veins in the rectal and anal region.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4695"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemostasis</b> (he-mo-STA-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Stoppage of bleeding or the flow of blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4700"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hemothorax</b> (he-mo-THO-rax):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood in the chest (pleural cavity) surrounding the lungs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4705"><span class="glossterm"><b>Heparin</b> (HEP-ah-rin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Anticoagulant found in blood and tissues.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4710"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hepatitis</b> (hep-ah-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the liver.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4715"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hepatocellular carcinoma</b> (hep-at-o-SEL-u-lar kar-sih-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of the liver.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4720"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hepatoma</b> (hep-ah-TO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor (cancerous) of the liver; hepatocellular carcinoma.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4725"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hepatomegaly</b> (hep-ah-to-MEG-ah-le):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enlargement of the liver.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4730"><span class="glossterm"><b>Herniation of an intervertebral disc</b> (her-ne-A-shun of an in-ter-ver-TE-bral disc):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal protrusion of an intervertebral disc into the spinal canal or spinal nerves.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4735"><span class="glossterm"><b>Herniorrhaphy</b> (her-ne-OR-ah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Suturing (stitching or sewing up) of a hernia.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4740"><span class="glossterm"><b>Herpes genitalis</b> (HER-peez jen-ih-TAL-is):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sexually transmitted infection of the skin and genital mucosa, caused by herpes simplex virus; marked by blisters.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="926" id="pagebreak_926"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4745"><span class="glossterm"><b>Herpes zoster</b> (HER-peez ZOS-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Viral infection affecting peripheral nerves; chicken pox virus or its reactivation (shingles).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4750"><span class="glossterm"><b>Herpetic stomatitis</b> (her-PET-ik sto-mah-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the mouth caused by infection with the herpesvirus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4755"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hiatal hernia</b> (hi-A-tal HER-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Protrusion of the upper portion of the stomach into the chest through the opening of the diaphragm.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4760"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hida scan</b> (HIH-dah scan):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radioactive imaging of the liver, gallbladder, and intestine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4765"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hilar</b> (HI-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the hilum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4770"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hilum</b> (HI-lum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Depression or hollow in the surface of an organ, such as the kidney and lung. It is the area where blood vessels and nerves enter and leave the organ.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4775"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hilum of the lung</b> (HI-lum of the lung):</span> <span class="glossdef">Midline region where the bronchi, blood vessels, and nerves enter and exit the lungs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4780"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hirsutism</b> (HER-soot-izm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive hair growth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4785"><span class="glossterm"><b>Histology</b> (his-TOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of tissues.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4790"><span class="glossterm"><b>Histrionic personality</b> (his-tre-ON-ik per-son-AL-it-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Highly emotional, immature, and dependent personality type with irrational outbursts, tantrums, and flamboyant and theatrical behavior.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4795"><span class="glossterm"><b>HIV encephalopathy</b> (HIV en-seh-fal-OP-ah-the):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease of the brain (dementia) caused by infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4800"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hodgkin lymphoma</b> (HOJ-kin lim-FO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of lymphatic tissue in the spleen and lymph nodes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4805"><span class="glossterm"><b>Holter monitoring</b> (HOL-ter MON-ih-teh-ring):</span> <span class="glossdef">Compact version of an electrocardiograph is worn during an extended period to detect cardiac arrhythmias.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4810"><span class="glossterm"><b>Homeostasis</b> (ho-me-o-STA-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tendency in an organism to return to a state of constancy and stability.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4815"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hordeolum</b> (hor-DE-o-lum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small, superficial white nodule along lid margin due to infection of a sebaceous gland; stye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4820"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hormonal</b> (hor-MO-nal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a hormone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4825"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hormone</b> (HOR-mone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chemical secreted by an endocrine gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4830"><span class="glossterm"><b>Human chorionic gonadotropin</b> (HU-man ko-re-ON-ik go-nad-o-TRO-pin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Secreted by the placenta to sustain pregnancy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4835"><span class="glossterm"><b>Human immunodeficiency virus</b> (HU-man im-u-no-deh-FISH-en-seVI-rus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Virus (retrovirus) that causes AIDS; HIV.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4840"><span class="glossterm"><b>Human papillomavirus</b> (HU-man pap-ih-LO-mah-vi-rus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Infection of the skin and mucous membranes in the anogenital region by the human papillomavirus; HPV.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4845"><span class="glossterm"><b>Humeral</b> (HU-mer-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the humerus (upper arm bone).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4850"><span class="glossterm"><b>Humerus</b> (HU-mer-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Upper arm bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4855"><span class="glossterm"><b>Humoral immunity</b> (HU-mer-al im-MU-nih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">B cells produce antibodies after exposure to specific antigens; type of adaptive immunity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4860"><span class="glossterm"><b>Huntington disease</b> (HUN-ting-ton dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hereditary disorder affecting the cerebrum and involving abrupt, involuntary, jerking movements, and mental deterioration in later stages.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4865"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hydrarthrosis</b> (hi-drar-THRO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of water or fluid in a joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4870"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hydrocele</b> (HI-dro-seel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hernia (sac of clear, watery fluid) within the scrotum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4875"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hydrocephalus</b> (hi-dro-SEF-ah-lus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles (canals) of the brain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4880"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hydrochloric acid</b> (hi-dro-KLOR-ikAS-id):</span> <span class="glossdef">Substance (strong acid) produced in the stomach; aids digestion.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4885"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hydronephrosis</b> (hi-dro-nef-RO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of excess backup of fluid (urine) in the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4890"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hydrotherapy</b> (hi-dro-THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment using water; whirlpool baths.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4895"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hymen</b> (HI-men):</span> <span class="glossdef">Mucous membrane partially or completely covering the opening to the vagina.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4900"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypalgesia</b> (hi-pal-JE-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Diminished sensitivity to pain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4905"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyperacusis</b> (hi-per-ah-KU-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive sensitivity to sounds.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="927" id="pagebreak_927"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4910"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyperbilirubinemia</b> (hi-per-bil-e-ru-bin-E-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">High levels of bilirubin (yellow/orange pigment) in the bloodstream; jaundice.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4915"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypercalcemia</b> (hi-per-kal-SE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">High levels of calcium in blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4920"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypercalciuria</b> (hi-per-kal-se-U-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">High levels of calcium in urine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4925"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypercapnia</b> (hi-per-KAP-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increased levels of carbon dioxide in the bloodstream.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4930"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypercholesterolemia</b> (hi-per-ko-les-ter-ol-E-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">High levels of cholesterol in the blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4935"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyperesthesia</b> (hi-per-es-THE-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive sensitivity or feeling, especially of the skin in response to touch or pain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4940"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyperglycemia</b> (hi-per-gli-SE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">High levels of sugar in the bloodstream; associated with diabetes mellitus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4945"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyperinsulinism</b> (hi-per-IN-su-lin-izm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increased secretion of insulin from the beta islet cells of the pancreas.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4950"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyperkalemia</b> (hi-per-ka-LE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of high concentration of potassium in blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4955"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyperkinesis</b> (hi-per-kih-NE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive movement.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4960"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypernatremia</b> (hi-per-na-TRE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormally high levels of sodium in the bloodstream.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4965"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyperopia</b> (hi-per-O-pe-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Farsightedness; vision condition in which distant objects are seen more clearly than objects that are near.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4970"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyperparathyroidism</b> (hi-per-par-ah-THI-royd-izm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increased secretion of parathormone from the parathyroid glands.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4975"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyperplasia</b> (hi-per-PLA-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of increased formation of cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4980"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyperpnea</b> (hi-PERP-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increase in breathing rate.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4985"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypersplenism</b> (hi-per-SPLEN-iz-m):</span> <span class="glossdef">Syndrome of spleen enlargement (splenomegaly) and destruction of red blood cells (hemolysis).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4990"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypertension</b> (hi-per-TEN-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">High blood pressure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls4995"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypertensive heart disease</b> (hi-per-TEN-siv hart dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">High blood pressure affecting the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5000"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypertensive retinopathy</b> (hi-per-TEN-siv reh-tih-NOP-ah-the):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease of the retina due to high blood pressure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5005"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyperthyroidism</b> (hi-per-THI-royd-izm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of increased secretion of thyroid gland hormones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5010"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypertrichosis</b> (hi-per-trih-KO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of excessive hair growth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5015"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypertrophy</b> (hi-PER-tro-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increase in size of tissue or an organ due to increase in size of individual cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5020"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyperuricemia</b> (hi-per-u-reh-SE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increase in uric acid in the blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5025"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypnosis</b> (hip-NO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Induction of a trance-like state of consciousness in a patient to increase the pace of psychotherapy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5030"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypnotic</b> (hip-NOT-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that promotes sleep or a trance-like state (hypnosis).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5035"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypocalcemia</b> (hi-po-kal-SE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Low levels of calcium in blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5040"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypochondriac regions</b> (hi-po-KON-dre-ak RE-jens):</span> <span class="glossdef">Right and left upper abdominopelvic regions (beneath the ribs).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5045"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypochromic</b> (hi-po-KRO-mik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to deficiency in color; decrease in hemoglobin in red blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5050"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypodermic</b> (hi-po-DER-mik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to under the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5055"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypodermic injection</b> (hi-po-DER-mik in-JEK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Injection of medication under the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5060"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypogastric</b> (hi-po-GAS-trik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to below the stomach.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5065"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypogastric region</b> (hi-po-GAS-trik RE-jen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Middle lower abdominopelvic region (below the umbilical region).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5070"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypoglossal</b> (hi-po-GLOS-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to under the tongue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5075"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypoglycemia</b> (hi-po-gli-SE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Low/deficient levels of sugar in blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5080"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypogonadism</b> (hi-po-GO-nad-iz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficient functioning of the gonads (ovaries or testes).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5085"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypoinsulinism</b> (hi-po-IN-su-lin-iz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficient production of insulin (pancreatic hormone).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5090"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypokalemia</b> (hi-po-ka-LE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Low levels of potassium in blood.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="928" id="pagebreak_928"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5095"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypomania</b> (hi-po-MA-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Elevated excitement that is of lesser intensity than mania.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5100"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hyponatremia</b> (hi-po-na-TRE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Low levels of sodium in blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5105"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypoparathyroidism</b> (hi-po-par-ah-THI-royd-iz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">Decreased secretion of parathormone from the parathyroid glands.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5110"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypophysectomy</b> (hi-pof-ih-SEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of the pituitary gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5115"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypophysis</b> (hi-POF-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pituitary gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5120"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypopituitarism</b> (hi-po-pih-TU-it-ar-izm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficient secretion of hormones from the pituitary gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5125"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypospadias</b> (hi-po-SPA-de-as):</span> <span class="glossdef">Congenital anomaly in which the opening of the urethra is on the underside of the penis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5130"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypothalamus</b> (hi-po-THAL-ah-mus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Region of the brain lying below the thalamus, but above the pituitary gland. It stimulates the pituitary gland to secrete and release hormones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5135"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypothyroidism</b> (hi-po-THI-royd-izm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Decreased secretion of hormones from the thyroid gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5140"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hypoxia</b> (hi-POX-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficiency of oxygen in tissues.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5145"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hysterectomy</b> (his-ter-EK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5150"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hysterosalpingogram</b> (his-ter-o-sal-PING-go-gram):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray imaging record of the uterus and fallopian tubes</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5155"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hysterosalpingography</b> (his-ter-o-sal-ping-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray imaging of the uterus and fallopian tubes after injection of contrast material.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5160"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hysteroscopy</b> (his-ter-OS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Visual examination (endoscopic) of the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5165"><span class="glossterm"><b>Hysterosonogram</b> (his-ter-o-SON-o-gram):</span> <span class="glossdef">Ultrasound imaging of the uterus.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0050"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0050">I</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls5170"><span class="glossterm"><b>Iatrogenic</b> (i-ah-tro-JEN-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to produced by a treatment or a procedure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5175"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ichthyosis</b> (ik-the-O-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hereditary condition in which the skin resembles fish scales and is dry, rough, and scaly.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5180"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ictal event</b> (IK-tal e-VENT):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a sudden, acute onset, as the convulsion of an epileptic seizure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5185"><span class="glossterm"><b>Icterus</b> (IK-ter-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Jaundice; yellow-orange coloration of the skin and whites of the eyes caused by high levels of bilirubin in the blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5190"><span class="glossterm"><b>Id</b> (id):</span> <span class="glossdef">Major unconscious part of the personality; instinctual drives and desires.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5195"><span class="glossterm"><b>Identical twins</b> (i-DEN-tih-kal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Two infants resulting from division of one fertilized egg.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5200"><span class="glossterm"><b>Idiopathic</b> (id-e-o-PATH-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to unknown cause of disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5205"><span class="glossterm"><b>Idiosyncrasy</b> (id-e-o-SIN-krah-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Unexpected effect produced in a particularly sensitive individual, but not seen in most patients.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5210"><span class="glossterm"><b>Idiosyncratic reaction</b> (id-e-o-sin-KRAH-tik re-AK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Unexpected effect produced in a particularly sensitive patient but not seen in most people.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5215"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ileitis</b> (il-e-I-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the ileum (third part of the small intestine).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5220"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ileocecal sphincter</b> (il-e-o-SE-kal SFINK-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Ring of muscles between the ileum and cecum (first part of the large intestine).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5225"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ileostomy</b> (il-e-OS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">New opening of the ileum to the outside of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5230"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ileum</b> (IL-e-UM):</span> <span class="glossdef">Third part of the small intestine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5235"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ileus</b> (IL-e-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Loss of peristalsis with resulting obstruction of the intestines.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5240"><span class="glossterm"><b>Iliac</b> (IL-e-ak):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the ilium; right or left uppermost portion of the hip bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5245"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ilium</b> (IL-e-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Upper and largest portion of the hip bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5250"><span class="glossterm"><b>Immune reaction</b> (im-MEWN re-AK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Response of the immune system to foreign invasion.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5255"><span class="glossterm"><b>Immunity</b> (ih-MU-nih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">The body’s capability to resist foreign organisms and toxins that can damage tissue and organs.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="929" id="pagebreak_929"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5260"><span class="glossterm"><b>Immunoelectrophoresis</b> (ih-mu-no-e-lek-tro-phor-E-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Laboratory test that separates immunoglobulins (IgG, IgM, IgD, IgE, and IgA).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5265"><span class="glossterm"><b>Immunoglobulin</b> (im-u-no-GLOB-u-lin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Protein (globulin) with antibody activity; examples are IgG, IgM, IgA, IgE, IgD.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5270"><span class="glossterm"><b>Immunohistochemistry</b> (im-u-no-his-to-KEM-is-tre):</span> <span class="glossdef">Localizing antigens or proteins in tissues using labeled (colored or fluorescent) antibodies.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5275"><span class="glossterm"><b>Immunosuppression</b> (im-u-no-su-PREH-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blocking or turning off the normal immune response.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5280"><span class="glossterm"><b>Immunotherapy</b> (im-u-no-THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cancer treatment using immune cells and antibodies to kill tumor cells; CAR T-cell therapy and checkpoint inhibitors are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5285"><span class="glossterm"><b>Impetigo</b> (im-peh-TI-go):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bacterial inflammatory skin disease characterized by vesicles, pustules, and crusted-over lesions.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5290"><span class="glossterm"><b>Implantable cardioverter defibrillator</b> (im-PLANT-ah-bul kar-de-o-VER-ter de-FIB-rih-la-tor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small electric device implanted inside the chest (near the collarbone) to sense arrhythmias and terminate them to restore normal sinus rhythm; ICD.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5295"><span class="glossterm"><b>Impotence</b> (IM-peh-tents):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inability of an adult male to achieve an erection; erectile dysfunction.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5300"><span class="glossterm"><b>In vitro</b> (in VE-tro):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process, test, or procedure performed, measured, or observed outside a living organism.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5305"><span class="glossterm"><b>In vitro fertilization</b> (in VE-tro fer-til-ih-ZA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Egg and sperm cells are combined outside the body in a laboratory dish (in vitro) to facilitate fertilization.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5310"><span class="glossterm"><b>In vivo</b> (inVE-vo):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process, test, or procedure performed, measured, or observed within a living organism.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5315"><span class="glossterm"><b>Incision</b> (in-SIZH-un):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of cutting into the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5320"><span class="glossterm"><b>Incisional biopsy</b> (in-SIZH-un-al BI-op-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Piece of tumor is removed for examination to establish a diagnosis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5325"><span class="glossterm"><b>Incisor</b> (in-SI-zor):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of the four front teeth on either jaw.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5330"><span class="glossterm"><b>Incus</b> (ING-kus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small anvil-shaped bone (ossicle) in the middle ear; second ossicle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5335"><span class="glossterm"><b>Infant respiratory distress syndrome</b> (IN-fant RESP-ir-ah-tory dis-TRES SIN-drohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Acute lung disease commonly seen in the premature newborn.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5340"><span class="glossterm"><b>Infarction</b> (in-FARK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Area of dead tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5345"><span class="glossterm"><b>Inferior</b> (in-FE-re-or):</span> <span class="glossdef">Below another structure; pertaining to the tail or lower portion of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5350"><span class="glossterm"><b>Infertility</b> (in-fer-til-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Any problem that lowers the chances of a woman becoming pregnant.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5355"><span class="glossterm"><b>Infiltrate</b> (IN-fil-trayt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collection of fluid or other material within the lung, as seen on a chest film, CT scan, or other radiologic image.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5360"><span class="glossterm"><b>Infiltrative</b> (IN-fil-tra-tiv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Extending beyond normal tissue boundaries.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5365"><span class="glossterm"><b>Inflammatory bowel disease</b> (in-FLAM-ah-tor-e BOW-el dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the colon and small intestine; Crohn disease and ulcerative colitis are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5370"><span class="glossterm"><b>Infracostal</b> (in-frah-KOS-tal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to below the ribs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5375"><span class="glossterm"><b>Inframammary</b> (in-frah-MAM-ar-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to below the breast.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5380"><span class="glossterm"><b>Infrapatellar</b> (in-frah-pah-TEL-er):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to below the patella (kneecap).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5385"><span class="glossterm"><b>Inguinal</b> (ING-win-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the groin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5390"><span class="glossterm"><b>Inguinal hernia</b> (ING-win-al HER-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small loop of the bowel protrudes through a weakened lower abdominal muscle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5395"><span class="glossterm"><b>Inguinal nodes</b> (IN-gwih-nal node):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lymph nodes in the groin region.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5400"><span class="glossterm"><b>Inguinal regions</b> (ING-win-al RE-jens):</span> <span class="glossdef">Right and left lower abdominopelvic regions (near the groin).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5405"><span class="glossterm"><b>Inhalation</b> (in-hah-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Act of breathing in; inspiration. Also administration of drugs in gaseous or vapor form through the nose or mouth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5410"><span class="glossterm"><b>Insight-oriented therapy</b> (IN-site OR-e-en-ted THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Face-to-face discussion of life problems and feelings to increase understanding of thoughts and behavior patterns; psychodynamic therapy.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="930" id="pagebreak_930"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5415"><span class="glossterm"><b>Insomniac</b> (in-SOM-ne-ak):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to without sleep; an insomniac is a person who cannot sleep.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5420"><span class="glossterm"><b>Inspiration</b> (in-spih-RA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Act of breathing in; inhalation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5425"><span class="glossterm"><b>Insulin</b> (IN-su-lin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the endocrine cells of the pancreas. It transports sugar from the blood into cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5430"><span class="glossterm"><b>Integumentary system</b> (in-teg-u-MEN-tair-e SIS-tem):</span> <span class="glossdef">Skin and its accessory organs such as hair and nails.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5435"><span class="glossterm"><b>Intercostal</b> (in-ter-KOS-tal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to between the ribs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5440"><span class="glossterm"><b>Interferons</b> (in-ter-FE-ronz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Proteins (cytokines) secreted by T cells and other cells to aid and regulate the immune response.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5445"><span class="glossterm"><b>Interleukins</b> (in-ter-LU-kinz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Proteins (cytokines) that stimulate the growth of B and T lymphocytes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls55410"><span class="glossterm"><b>Interpersonal psychotherapy</b> (in-ter-PER-son-al si-ko-THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Short-term treatment for depression concentrating on interpersonal relationships and life transitions.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5450"><span class="glossterm"><b>Interstitial cells of the testes</b> (in-ter-STIH-shul selz of the TES-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cells that lie between the seminiferous tubules and produce testosterone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5455"><span class="glossterm"><b>Interstitial fluid</b> (in-ter-STIH-shul FLU-id):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fluid in the spaces between cells. This fluid becomes lymph when it enters lymph capillaries.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5460"><span class="glossterm"><b>Interstitial nephritis</b> (in-ter-STIH-shul neh-FRI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the connective tissue that lies between the renal tubules in the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5465"><span class="glossterm"><b>Interventional radiology</b> (in-ter-VEN-shun-al ra-de-OL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Therapeutic procedures performed by a radiologist.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5470"><span class="glossterm"><b>Interventricular septum</b> (in-ter-ven-TRIK-u-lar SEP-tum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Wall between the ventricles of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5475"><span class="glossterm"><b>Intervertebral</b> (in-ter-ver-TE-bral):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to between the vertebrae (backbones).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5480"><span class="glossterm"><b>Intraocular</b> (in-trah-OK-u-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to within the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5485"><span class="glossterm"><b>Intrathecal</b> (in-trah-THE-kal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to within the membranes (meninges) surrounding the brain and spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5490"><span class="glossterm"><b>Intrathecal injection</b> (in-trah-THE-kal in-JEK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Delivery of chemicals within the membranes (meninges) surrounding the brain and spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5495"><span class="glossterm"><b>Intrauterine device</b> (in-trah-U-ter-in de-VISE):</span> <span class="glossdef">Device inserted by a physician into the uterus to prevent pregnancy; IUD.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5500"><span class="glossterm"><b>Intravenous</b> (in-trah-VE-nus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to within a vein.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5505"><span class="glossterm"><b>Intravesical</b> (in-trah-VES-ih-kal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Within the urinary bladder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5510"><span class="glossterm"><b>Intravitreal</b> (in-trah-VIT-re-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to within the vitreous humor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5515"><span class="glossterm"><b>Intrinsic factor</b> (in-TRIN-sik FAK-tor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Substance normally found in gastric (stomach) juice that helps absorption of vitamin B<sub>12</sub> into the bloodstream.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5520"><span class="glossterm"><b>Intussusception</b> (in-tus-sus-SEP-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Telescoping of the intestines.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5525"><span class="glossterm"><b>Invasive</b> (in-VA-siv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Having the ability to enter and destroy surrounding tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5530"><span class="glossterm"><b>Inversion</b> (in-VER-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Turning inward.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5535"><span class="glossterm"><b>Involution</b> (in-vo-LU-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Shrinking of the uterus (womb) to its normal size after childbirth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5540"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ionization</b> (i-on-ih-ZA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Transformation of electrically neutral substances into electrically charged particles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5545"><span class="glossterm"><b>Iridectomy</b> (ir-ih-DEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of a portion of the iris.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5550"><span class="glossterm"><b>Iridic</b> (ir-RID-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the iris.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5555"><span class="glossterm"><b>Iris</b> (I-ris):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pigmented (colored) layer of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5560"><span class="glossterm"><b>Iritis</b> (i-RI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the iris of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5565"><span class="glossterm"><b>Irradiation</b> (ir-ra-de-A-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Exposure to any form of radiant energy such as light, heat, or x-rays.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5570"><span class="glossterm"><b>Irritable bowel syndrome</b> (IR-it-ah-bel BOW-el SIN-drohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Group of gastrointestinal symptoms (abdominal pain, diarrhea, constipation, and bloating), but without structural abnormalities in the intestines.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5575"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ischemia</b> (is-KE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of holding back blood from an organ or tissue.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="931" id="pagebreak_931"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5580"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ischial</b> (ISH-e-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the ischium (posterior portion of the hip bone).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5585"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ischium</b> (ISH-e-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Posterior (back) portion of the hip bone.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0055"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0055">J</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls5590"><span class="glossterm"><b>Jaundice</b> (JAWN-dis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Yellow-orange coloration of the skin and whites of the eyes caused by high levels of bilirubin in the blood; icterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5595"><span class="glossterm"><b>Jejunum</b> (je-JU-num):</span> <span class="glossdef">Second part of the small intestine.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0060"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0060">K</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls5600"><span class="glossterm"><b>Kaposi sarcoma</b> (KAH-po-se sar-KO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of skin and connective tissue; associated with AIDS.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5605"><span class="glossterm"><b>Karyotype</b> (KAR-e-o-type):</span> <span class="glossdef">Picture (classification) of chromosomes in the nucleus of a cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5610"><span class="glossterm"><b>Keloid</b> (KE-loyd):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enlarged scar on the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5615"><span class="glossterm"><b>Keratin</b> (KER-ah-tin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hard protein found in epidermis, hair, and nails.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5620"><span class="glossterm"><b>Keratitis</b> (ker-ah-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the cornea of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5625"><span class="glossterm"><b>Keratoplasty</b> (ker-ah-to-PLAS-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of the cornea of the eye; corneal transplant.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5630"><span class="glossterm"><b>Keratosis</b> (ker-ah-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive development of hard, keratinized tissue on the skin associated with aging or skin damage.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5635"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ketoacidosis</b> (ke-to-ah-sih-DO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fats are improperly burned, leading to an accumulation of ketones and acids in the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5640"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ketonuria</b> (ke-to-NU-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Presence of ketones in the urine. Common in uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, but can occur anytime the body begins to break down fatty tissue to provide energy, as in starvation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5645"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ketosis</b> (ke-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Accumulation of large quantities of ketone bodies (acetones) in the blood; ketoacidosis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5650"><span class="glossterm"><b>Kidney</b> (KID-ne):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of two bean-shaped organs behind the abdominal cavity on either side of the backbone in the lumbar region.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5655"><span class="glossterm"><b>Kleptomania</b> (klep-to-MA-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Strong impulse to steal, often with little actual desire for the stolen item.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5660"><span class="glossterm"><b>KUB</b> (K-U-B):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray examination (without contrast) of the kidneys, ureters, and bladder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5665"><span class="glossterm"><b>Kyphosis</b> (ki-FO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of outward curvature (convexity) of the thoracic spine; humpback.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0065"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0065">L</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls5670"><span class="glossterm"><b>Labia</b> (LA-be-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lips of the vagina.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5675"><span class="glossterm"><b>Labial</b> (LA-be-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the lip.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5680"><span class="glossterm"><b>Labile</b> (LA-bile):</span> <span class="glossdef">Unstable; undergoing rapid emotional change.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5685"><span class="glossterm"><b>Labiodental</b> (la-be-o-DEN-tal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to lips and teeth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5690"><span class="glossterm"><b>Labyrinth</b> (LAB-ih-rinth):</span> <span class="glossdef">Maze-like series of canals of the inner ear; cochlea, vestibule, and semicircular canals.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5695"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lacrimal</b> (LAK-rih-mal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to tears.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5700"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lacrimal bones</b> (LA-krim-al bones):</span> <span class="glossdef">Two small facial bones that contain tear glands and canals for the passage of tear ducts.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5705"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lacrimation</b> (lah-krih-MA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Production of tears.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5710"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lactation</b> (lak-TA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Production of milk.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5715"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lactiferous ducts</b> (lak-TIF-er-usdukts):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tubes that carry milk from the mammary glands to the nipple.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5720"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lamina</b> (LAM-in-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of two posterior (back) arches of a vertebra.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5725"><span class="glossterm"><b>Laminectomy</b> (lam-in-EK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical removal of a portion of the vertebral arch (lamina) to relieve pressure on a protruding intervertebral disc.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="932" id="pagebreak_932"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5730"><span class="glossterm"><b>Laparoscope</b> (LAP-ah-ro-skope):</span> <span class="glossdef">Instrument used to visually examine the abdomen using small incisions and with the aid of a camera.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5735"><span class="glossterm"><b>Laparoscopy</b> (lap-ah-ROS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of visually examining the abdomen using an endoscope (laparoscope); minimally invasive surgery.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5740"><span class="glossterm"><b>Laparotomy</b> (lap-ah-ROT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision (large) of the abdomen for diagnosis and treatment. This is exploratory or open surgery.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5745"><span class="glossterm"><b>Laryngeal</b> (lah-rin-JE-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the larynx (voice box).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5750"><span class="glossterm"><b>Laryngectomy</b> (lah-rin-JEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of the larynx or voice box.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5755"><span class="glossterm"><b>Laryngitis</b> (lah-rin-JI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the larynx (voice box).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5760"><span class="glossterm"><b>Laryngoscopy</b> (lah-rin-GOS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Endoscopic visual examination of the larynx.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5765"><span class="glossterm"><b>Laryngospasm</b> (lah-RING-go-spaz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">Involuntary contraction of muscles surrounding the voice box.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5770"><span class="glossterm"><b>Larynx</b> (LAR-inks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Voice box; located above the trachea (windpipe).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5775"><span class="glossterm"><b>Laser photocoagulation</b> (LA-zer fo-to-ko-ag-u-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Intense, precisely focused light beam (argon laser) creates an inflammatory reaction that seals retinal tears and leaky retinal blood vessels.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5780"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lateral</b> (LAT-er-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the side.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5785"><span class="glossterm"><b>Laxative</b> (LAK-sah-tiv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Weak cathartic; promotes movement of feces through the colon.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5790"><span class="glossterm"><b>Left ventricular assist device</b> (left ven-TRIH-ku-lar ah-SIST de-vise):</span> <span class="glossdef">Booster pump implanted in the abdomen with a tube inserted into the left ventricle. An LVAD is a “bridge to transplant” or destination therapy when heart transplantation is impossible.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5795"><span class="glossterm"><b>Leiomyoma</b> (li-o-mi-O-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Benign tumor of smooth, involuntary muscle; when in the uterus, called a fibroid.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5800"><span class="glossterm"><b>Leiomyosarcoma</b> (li-o-mi-o-sar-KO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of smooth (involuntary) muscle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5805"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lens</b> (lenz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Transparent, biconvex body behind the pupil of the eye. It bends (refracts) light rays to bring them into focus on the retina.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5810"><span class="glossterm"><b>Leptomeningitis</b> (lep-to-men-in-JI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the two thinner membranes (arachnoid and pia mater) surrounding the brain and spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5815"><span class="glossterm"><b>Leukapheresis</b> (lu-kah-feh-RE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Mechanical separation of white blood cells from the rest of the blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5820"><span class="glossterm"><b>Leukemia</b> (lu-KE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood condition of high numbers of malignant (cancerous) white blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5825"><span class="glossterm"><b>Leukocyte</b> (LU-ko-site):</span> <span class="glossdef">White blood cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5830"><span class="glossterm"><b>Leukocytosis</b> (lu-ko-si-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of slight increase in normal white blood cells; often the result of inflammation or infection.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5835"><span class="glossterm"><b>Leukopenia</b> (lu-ko-PE-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficiency of white blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5840"><span class="glossterm"><b>Leukoplakia</b> (lu-ko-PLA-ke-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">White plaques on mucous membranes and surfaces of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5845"><span class="glossterm"><b>Leukorrhea</b> (lu-ko-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">White to yellow discharge from the vagina.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5850"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ligament</b> (LIG-ah-ment):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fibrous, connective bands binding bones to other bones; supports, strengthens, and stabilizes the joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5855"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ligamentous</b> (lig-ah-MEN-tus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a ligament.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5860"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ligation</b> (li-GA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tying off a tube or blood vessel.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls58560"><span class="glossterm"><b>Light therapy</b> (lite THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Exposure to an artificial light source to treat major depressive disorder with seasonal patterns (season affective disorder or SAD).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5865"><span class="glossterm"><b>Linear accelerator</b> (LIN-e-ar ak-SEL-eh-ra-tor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Device that produces high-energyx-ray (photon) beams for treatment of deep-seated tumors.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5870"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lipase</b> (LI-payz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pancreatic enzyme necessary to digest fats.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls56875"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lipase test</b> (LI-payztest):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood test for the level of lipase.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="933" id="pagebreak_933"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5875"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lipid tests</b> (LIH-pidtests):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurement of cholesterol and triglycerides (fats) in a sample of blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5880"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lipoma</b> (li-PO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Benign tumor of fatty tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5885"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lipoprotein electrophoresis</b> (li-po-PRO-teen e-lek-tro-for-E-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lipoproteins (combinations of fat and protein) are physically separated in a blood sample. Examples of lipoproteins are HDL (high-density lipoprotein) and LDL (low-density lipoprotein).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5890"><span class="glossterm"><b>Liposuction</b> (li-po-SUK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of adipose (fatty) tissue with a suction pump device.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5895"><span class="glossterm"><b>Liquid biopsy</b> (LIK-wid BI-op-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Test done on a sample of blood to look for cancer cells or pieces of DNA from tumor cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5900"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lithium</b> (LITH-e-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug used to treat the manic episodes in bipolar disorder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5905"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lithogenesis</b> (lith-o-JEN-eh-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Formation of stones (calculi).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5910"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lithotripsy</b> (LITH-o-trip-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of using high-energy sound waves to crush a stone within the kidney or ureter.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5915"><span class="glossterm"><b>Liver</b> (LIV-er):</span> <span class="glossdef">Large, reddish-brown organ in the right upper quadrant (RUQ) of the abdomen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5920"><span class="glossterm"><b>Liver biopsy</b> (LIV-er bi-OP-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of liver tissue followed by microscopic examination.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5925"><span class="glossterm"><b>Liver function tests</b> (LIV-er FUNK-shun tests):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tests for the presence of liver enzymes and bilirubin in blood or serum (clear fluid that remains after blood has clotted).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5930"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lobectomy</b> (lo-BEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of a lobe or section of a lung.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5935"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lordosis</b> (lor-DO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Anterior (forward) curvature of the lumbar spinal column. In its extreme form it is known as “swayback.”</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5940"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lower esophageal sphincter</b> (LO-er eh-sof-ah-JE-al SFINK-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Ring of muscles between the esophagus and the stomach.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5945"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lower gastrointestinal series</b> (LO-er gas-tro-in-TES-tin-al SE-reez):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray images of the colon and rectum obtained after injection of barium into the rectum; barium enema.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5950"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lumbar puncture</b> (LUM-bar PUNK-shur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Withdrawal of cerebrospinal fluid from the subarachnoid space between two lumbar vertebrae; spinal tap.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5955"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lumbar regions</b> (LUM-bar RE-jens):</span> <span class="glossdef">Right and left middle abdominopelvic regions near the waist.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5960"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lumbar spine</b> (LUM-bar spine):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the lower back</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5965"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lumbar vertebrae</b> (LUM-bar VER-teh-bray):</span> <span class="glossdef">Five backbones in the region of the waist.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5970"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lumbosacral</b> (lum-bo-SA-kral):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the lumbar and sacral regions of the back.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5975"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lung biopsy</b> (lung BI-op-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical removal of lung tissue followed by microscopic examination of cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5980"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lung cancer</b> (lung KAN-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor arising from the lungs and bronchial tubes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5985"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lunula</b> (LU-nu-lah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Half-moon–shaped, whitish area at the base of a nail.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5990"><span class="glossterm"><b>Luteinizing hormone</b> (LU-teh-ni-zing HOR-mone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Secreted by the pituitary gland (anterior lobe); stimulates ovulation in females and testosterone secretion in males.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls5995"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lyme disease</b> (lime dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic, recurrent disorder marked by severe arthritis, myalgia, and malaise; cause is a bacterium carried by a tick.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6000"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymph</b> (limf):</span> <span class="glossdef">Thin, watery fluid that circulates within lymph vessels and lymph nodes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6005"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymph capillaries</b> (limf KAP-il-ar-eez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tiniest lymphatic vessels.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6010"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymph node</b> (limf node):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collection of stationary solid lymphatic tissue along lymph vessels.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6015"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymph vessel</b> (limf VES-el):</span> <span class="glossdef">Carrier of lymph throughout the body; lymphatic vessels empty lymph into veins in the upper part of the chest.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6020"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymphadenitis</b> (limf-ah-deh-NI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of lymph nodes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6025"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymphadenopathy</b> (limf-ah-deh-NOP-ah-the):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease of lymph nodes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6030"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymphedema</b> (limf-eh-DE-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal collection of fluid in tissue spaces caused by obstruction of lymph vessels and backflow of lymph.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="934" id="pagebreak_934"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6035"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymphocyte</b> (LIMF-o-site):</span> <span class="glossdef">Type of white blood cell (leukocyte) found in lymph nodes and blood; part of the immune system that fights disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6040"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymphocytopenia</b> (limf-o-si-to-PE-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficiency of lymphocytes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6045"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymphocytosis</b> (limf-o-si-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increase in numbers of lymphocytes in the blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6050"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymphoid</b> (LIMF-oyd):</span> <span class="glossdef">Gives rise to lymphocytes or to tissue in which lymphocytes develop.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6055"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymphoid organs</b> (LIMF-oyd OR-ganz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Organs containing and derived from lymphatic tissue; spleen, thymus gland, and lymph nodes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6060"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymphoma</b> (limf-O-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of lymph nodes and lymphatic tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6065"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymphopoiesis</b> (limf-o-poy-E-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Formation of lymphocytes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6070"><span class="glossterm"><b>Lymphoscintigraphy</b> (lim-fo-sin-TIG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nuclear medicine imaging that provides pictures (scintigrams) of the lymphatic system.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0070"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0070">M</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls6075"><span class="glossterm"><b>Macrocephaly</b> (mak-ro-SEH-fah-le):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of a larger than normal head; congenital anomaly.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6080"><span class="glossterm"><b>Macrocytosis</b> (mak-ro-si-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Presence of large red blood cells in the blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6085"><span class="glossterm"><b>Macrophage</b> (MAK-ro-fayg):</span> <span class="glossdef">Large phagocytic cell migrating from the blood into all tissues to fight disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6090"><span class="glossterm"><b>Macrotia</b> (mak-RO-she-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormally large ears.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6095"><span class="glossterm"><b>Macula</b> (MAK-u-lah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small oval region on the retina near the optic disc; contains the fovea centralis, which is the area of clearest vision.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6100"><span class="glossterm"><b>Macular degeneration</b> (MAK-u-lar de-jen-eh-RA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Progressive damage to the macula of the retina and resulting in loss of central vision.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6105"><span class="glossterm"><b>Macule</b> (MAK-ul):</span> <span class="glossdef">Flat, pigmented lesion on the skin measuring less than 1 cm in diameter; freckles, tattoo marks, and flat moles are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6110"><span class="glossterm"><b>Magnetic resonance imaging</b> (mag-NET-ik REH-zo-nants IM-aj-ing):</span> <span class="glossdef">Magnetic waves and radio waves produce images of organs and tissues in all three planes of the body; MRI.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6115"><span class="glossterm"><b>Malaise</b> (mal-AYZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">General feeling of bodily discomfort.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6120"><span class="glossterm"><b>Malignant</b> (mah-LIG-nant):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cancerous; harmful.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6125"><span class="glossterm"><b>Malignant melanoma</b> (mah-LIG-nant mel-ah-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cancerous skin growth composed of melanocytes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6130"><span class="glossterm"><b>Malignant tumor</b> (mah-LIG-nant TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cancerous tumor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6135"><span class="glossterm"><b>Malleolar</b> (mah-LE-o-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a malleolus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6140"><span class="glossterm"><b>Malleolus</b> (mah-LE-o-lus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Round process on both sides of the ankle joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6145"><span class="glossterm"><b>Malleus</b> (MAH-le-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hammer-shaped, small bone (ossicle) in the middle ear; first ossicle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6150"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mammary papilla</b> (MAM-ar-e pap-IL-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nipple of the breast.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6155"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mammogram</b> (MAM-o-gram):</span> <span class="glossdef">Record (x-ray) of the breast.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6160"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mammography</b> (mah-MOG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray recording of the breast.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6165"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mammoplasty</b> (MAM-o-plast-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of the breast (augmentation or reduction surgery).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6170"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mandible</b> (MAN-dib-ul):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lower jawbone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6175"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mandibular</b> (man-DIB-u-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the lower jawbone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6180"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mania</b> (MA-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">State of excessive excitability, hyperactive elation, and agitation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6185"><span class="glossterm"><b>Manubrium</b> (mah-NU-bre-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Upper portion of the sternum (breastbone).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6190"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mastectomy</b> (mas-TEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal (excision) of a breast.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6195"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mastication</b> (mas-tih-KA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chewing.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="935" id="pagebreak_935"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6200"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mastitis</b> (mas-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of a breast.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6205"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mastoid process</b> (MAS-toyd PROS-es):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rounded projection on the temporal bone behind the ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6210"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mastoiditis</b> (mas-toy-DI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation and infection of the mastoid process just behind the ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6215"><span class="glossterm"><b>Maxilla</b> (max-SIL-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Upper jawbone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6220"><span class="glossterm"><b>Maxillary</b> (max-ih-LAIR-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the upper jawbones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6225"><span class="glossterm"><b>Meatal stenosis</b> (me-A-tal sten-O-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Narrowing of the meatus (opening) leading from the urethra to the outside of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6230"><span class="glossterm"><b>Meatus</b> (me-A-tus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Opening or canal.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6235"><span class="glossterm"><b>Meconium aspiration syndrome</b> (me-KO-ne-um as-pih-RA-shun SIN-drohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal inhalation of meconium produced by a fetus or newborn.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6240"><span class="glossterm"><b>Medial</b> (ME-de-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the middle or near the medial plane of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6245"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mediastinal nodes</b> (me-de-ah-STI-nal nodes):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lymph nodes in the mediastinum (central area between the lungs in the chest).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6250"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mediastinoscopy</b> (me-de-ah-sti-NOS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Endoscopic visual examination of the mediastinum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6255"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mediastinum</b> (me-de-ah-STI-num):</span> <span class="glossdef">Centrally located space outside of and between the lungs in the thoracic cavity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6260"><span class="glossterm"><b>Medicinal chemistry</b> (med-IS-sin-al KEM-is-tre):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of new drug synthesis and the relationship between the chemical structure of a drug and its biologic effect.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6265"><span class="glossterm"><b>Medulla</b> (meh-DUL-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inner region of an organ.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6270"><span class="glossterm"><b>Medulla oblongata</b> (meh-DUL-ah ob-lon-GAH-tah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lower part of the brain, closest to the spinal cord; controls breathing, heartbeat, and size of blood vessels.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6275"><span class="glossterm"><b>Medullary</b> (MED-u-lair-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the medulla (inner region) of an organ.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6280"><span class="glossterm"><b>Medullary cavity</b> (MED-u-lair-e KAV-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Central, hollowed-out area in the shaft of a long bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6285"><span class="glossterm"><b>Medullary tumor</b> (MED-u-lair-e TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Large, fleshy tumor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6290"><span class="glossterm"><b>Megakaryocyte</b> (meg-ah-KAR-e-o-site):</span> <span class="glossdef">Large, cell with a big nucleus; platelet precursor found in the bone marrow.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6295"><span class="glossterm"><b>Melanin</b> (MEL-ah-nin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Skin pigment. It is formed by melanocytes in the epidermis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6300"><span class="glossterm"><b>Melanocyte</b> (meh-LAN-o-site):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cell in the basal layer of the epidermis that produces melanin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11495"><span class="glossterm"><b>Melanoma</b> (mah-LIG-nantmel-ah-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cancerous skin growth composed of melanocytes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6305"><span class="glossterm"><b>Melena</b> (MEL-en-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Black, tarry stools; feces containing blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6310"><span class="glossterm"><b>Menarche</b> (meh-NAR-ke):</span> <span class="glossdef">Beginning of the first menstrual period.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6315"><span class="glossterm"><b>Meniere disease</b> (men-e-AIR dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disorder of the labyrinth of the inner ear; elevated endolymph pressure within the cochlea (cochlear hydrops) and semicircular canals (vestibular hydrops).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6320"><span class="glossterm"><b>Meningeal</b> (meh-NIN-je-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the meninges.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6325"><span class="glossterm"><b>Meninges</b> (meh-NIN-jeez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Three membranes surrounding and protecting the brain and spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6330"><span class="glossterm"><b>Meningioma</b> (meh-nin-je-O-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor (benign) of the meninges.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6335"><span class="glossterm"><b>Meningitis</b> (men-in-JI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the meninges.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6340"><span class="glossterm"><b>Meningocele</b> (meh-NIN-jo-seel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hernia of the meninges through a defect or space between vertebrae; a form of spina bifida.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6345"><span class="glossterm"><b>Meniscus</b> (meh-NIS-kus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Crescent-shaped fibrocartilaginous structure that provides a cushion for a joint (such as the knee).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6350"><span class="glossterm"><b>Menometrorrhagia</b> (men-o-met-ro-RA-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive uterine bleeding during menstruation and also between menstrual periods.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6355"><span class="glossterm"><b>Menopause</b> (MEN-o-pawz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Gradual ending of menstruation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6360"><span class="glossterm"><b>Menorrhagia</b> (men-o-RA-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormally heavy or long menstrual periods.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="936" id="pagebreak_936"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6365"><span class="glossterm"><b>Menorrhea</b> (men-o-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Menstruation; monthly discharge of blood from the lining of the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6370"><span class="glossterm"><b>Menstruation</b> (men-stru-A-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Monthly shedding of the lining of the uterus; menses.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6375"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mental</b> (MEN-tal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the mind.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6380"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mesenchymal</b> (mez-en-KI-mal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to embryonic connective tissue from which all connective tissues arise. Sarcomas are tumors of connective tissues that arise originally from mesenchymal cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6385"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mesenteric nodes</b> (mez-en-TER-ik nodes):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lymph nodes in the mesentery (intestinal region).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6390"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mesentery</b> (MES-en-ter-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Membrane that attaches the intestines to the abdominal wall and holds them in place.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6395"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mesothelioma</b> (mez-o-the-le-O-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rare malignant tumor arising in the pleura and associated with asbestos exposure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6400"><span class="glossterm"><b>Metabolism</b> (meh-TAB-o-lism):</span> <span class="glossdef">Total of the chemical processes in a cell. It includes catabolism and anabolism.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6405"><span class="glossterm"><b>Metacarpal bones</b> (met-ah-KAR-pal bones):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hand bones; literally, beyond the wrist.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6410"><span class="glossterm"><b>Metacarpals</b> (met-ah-KAR-palz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hand bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6415"><span class="glossterm"><b>Metacarpectomy</b> (met-ah-kar-PEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of hand bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6420"><span class="glossterm"><b>Metamorphosis</b> (met-ah-MOR-fuh-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of change of shape or form.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6425"><span class="glossterm"><b>Metaphysis</b> (meh-TAH-fih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Flared portion of a long bone, between the diaphysis (shaft) of the bone and the epiphyseal plate at the end of the bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6430"><span class="glossterm"><b>Metastasis</b> (meh-TAS-tah-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Spread of a malignant tumor beyond its original location to a distant site.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6435"><span class="glossterm"><b>Metatarsalgia</b> (met-ah-tar-SAL-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Foot pain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6440"><span class="glossterm"><b>Metatarsals</b> (met-ah-TAR-salz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Foot bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6445"><span class="glossterm"><b>Metrorrhagia</b> (met-ro-RA-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bleeding at irregular intervals; between expected menstrual periods.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6450"><span class="glossterm"><b>Microcephaly</b> (mi-kro-CEF-al-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of smaller than normal head; a congenital anomaly.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6455"><span class="glossterm"><b>Microcytosis</b> (mi-kro-si-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increased numbers of smaller than normal red blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6460"><span class="glossterm"><b>Microglial cell</b> (mi-kro-GLE-al sel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Phagocytic glial cell that removes waste products from the central nervous system.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6465"><span class="glossterm"><b>Microscope</b> (MI-kro-skope):</span> <span class="glossdef">Instrument to view small objects.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6470"><span class="glossterm"><b>Midbrain</b> (MID-brayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Uppermost portion of the brainstem.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6475"><span class="glossterm"><b>Migraine</b> (MI-grane):</span> <span class="glossdef">Severe headache, often unilateral, and sometimes accompanied by nausea and vomiting.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6480"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mineralocorticoid</b> (min-er-al-o-KOR-tih-koyd):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the adrenal cortex; regulates salts (electrolytes) and water balance in the body. Aldosterone is an example.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6485"><span class="glossterm"><b>Miosis</b> (mi-O-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Contraction of the pupil of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6490"><span class="glossterm"><b>Miotic</b> (mi-OT-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that causes the pupil of the eye to contract.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6495"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mitochondria</b> (mi-to-KON-dre-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rod-shaped structures in the cytoplasm of the cell that provide principal source of energy; catabolism occurs in mitochondria.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6500"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mitosis</b> (mi-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cell division or replication of cells; creation of two identical daughter cells from a parent cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6505"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mitral stenosis</b> (MI-tral steh-NO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Narrowing of the mitral valve.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6510"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mitral valve</b> (MI-tral valv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Valve between the left atrium and left ventricle of the heart; bicuspid valve.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6515"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mitral valve prolapse</b> (MI-tral valv PRO-laps):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal closure of the mitral valve so that blood refluxes backward into the left atrium during ventricular contraction.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6520"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mitral valvulitis</b> (MI-tral val-vu-LI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the mitral valve.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6525"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mixed tissue tumors</b> (MIKSD TIH-shu TU-morz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumors composed of different types of tissue (epithelial as well as connective tissues).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6530"><span class="glossterm"><b>Modality</b> (mo-DAL-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Method of treatment.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6535"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mohs surgery</b> (mohz SUR-jer-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Thin layers of malignant tissue are removed, and each slice is examined microscopically to check for adequate extent of the resection.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6540"><span class="glossterm"><b>Molar teeth</b> (MO-lar teeth):</span> <span class="glossdef">Three large flat teeth at the back of the mouth on either side of the dental arch.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="937" id="pagebreak_937"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6545"><span class="glossterm"><b>Molecular pharmacology</b> (mo-LEK-u-lar far-mah-KOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the interaction of drugs and their target molecules, enzymes, or cell surface receptors.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6550"><span class="glossterm"><b>Molecularly targeted therapy</b> (mo-LEK-u-lar-le TAR-get-edTHER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Anticancer drugs designed to block the function of growth factors, their receptors, and signaling pathways in specific tumor cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6555"><span class="glossterm"><b>Monoblast</b> (MON-o-blast):</span> <span class="glossdef">Immature monocyte.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6560"><span class="glossterm"><b>Monoclonal antibody</b> (mon-o-CLO-nal AN-tih-bod-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Antibody created in a laboratory by special reproductive (cloning) techniques; designed to attack specific cancer cells. It is useful in immunotherapy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6565"><span class="glossterm"><b>Monocyte</b> (MON-o-site):</span> <span class="glossdef">White blood cell with one large nucleus; capable of engulfing foreign material and debris (phagocytosis). Monocytes become macrophages as they leave the blood and enter body tissues.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6570"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mononuclear</b> (mon-o-NU-kle-ar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a white blood cell with a single round nucleus; monocyte or lymphocyte.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6575"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mononucleosis</b> (mon-o-nu-kle-O-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Infectious viral disease marked by increased numbers of leukocytes and enlarged cervical lymph nodes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6580"><span class="glossterm"><b>Morbidity</b> (mor-BID-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Damage to normal tissue or the state of being diseased.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6585"><span class="glossterm"><b>Morphology</b> (mor-FOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the shape or form of cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6590"><span class="glossterm"><b>Motor nerve</b> (MO-ter nerv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Carries impulses from the brain and spinal cord to muscles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6595"><span class="glossterm"><b>MRI urography</b> (MRI u-ROG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of taking MRI images of the urinary tract after injecting contrast.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6600"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mucinous</b> (MU-sin-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to cystic tumors filled with mucus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6605"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mucositis</b> (mu-ko-SI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of mucous membranes; often a side effect of radiation therapy or chemotherapy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6610"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mucous membrane</b> (MU-cus MEM-brayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lining of body cavities and tubular organs; secretes mucus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6615"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mucus</b> (MU-cus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sticky substance that is secreted from a mucous membrane.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6620"><span class="glossterm"><b>Multigravida</b> (mul-tih-GRAV-ih-dah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Woman who has been pregnant more than once.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6625"><span class="glossterm"><b>Multipara</b> (mul-TIH-pah-rah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Woman who has delivered more than one viable infant.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6630"><span class="glossterm"><b>Multiple gestation</b> (MUL-tih-pel jes-TA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">The presence of more than one embryo developing in the uterus during pregnancy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6635"><span class="glossterm"><b>Multiple myeloma</b> (MUL-tih-pel mi-eh-LO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of bone marrow cells (plasma cells that produce immunoglobulins).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6640"><span class="glossterm"><b>Multiple sclerosis</b> (MUL-tih-pel skleh-RO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic neurologic disorder marked by destruction of the myelin sheath on axons in the CNS.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6645"><span class="glossterm"><b>Murmur</b> (MUR-mer):</span> <span class="glossdef">Extra sound heard between normal beats during auscultation of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6650"><span class="glossterm"><b>Muscle biopsy</b> (MUS-el BI-op-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of muscle tissue for microscopic examination to assess for abnormalities or disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6655"><span class="glossterm"><b>Muscular dystrophy</b> (MUS-ku-lar DIS-tro-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Group of inherited diseases characterized by progressive weakness and degeneration of muscle fibers without involvement of the nervous system.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6660"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mutagenic</b> (mu-tah-JEN-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to producing a mutation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6665"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mutation</b> (mu-TA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Change in genetic material (DNA) of a cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6670"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mutism</b> (MU-tizm):</span> <span class="glossdef">No, or very little, ability to speak.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6675"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myalgia</b> (mi-AL-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Muscle pain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6680"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myasthenia gravis</b> (mi-as-THE-ne-ah GRAV-is):</span> <span class="glossdef">Autoimmune neuromuscular disorder characterized by weakness of voluntary muscles. Muscles lose strength because of a failure in transmission of the nervous impulse from the nerve to the muscle cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6685"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mycosis</b> (mi-KO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease caused by a fungus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6690"><span class="glossterm"><b>Mydriasis</b> (mih-DRI-ah-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Widening of the pupil of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6695"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myelin sheath</b> (MI-eh-lin sheeth):</span> <span class="glossdef">White fatty covering over the axon of a nerve cell.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="938" id="pagebreak_938"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6700"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myelitis</b> (mi-eh-LI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6705"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myeloblast</b> (MI-eh-lo-blast):</span> <span class="glossdef">Immature bone marrow cell that gives rise to granulocytes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6710"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myelodysplasia</b> (mi-eh-lo-dis-PLA-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Group of disorders related to the inability of the bone marrow to produce normal blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6715"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myelography</b> (mi-eh-LOG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray image of the spinal cord after injection of contrast into the membranes surrounding the spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6720"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myeloid</b> (MI-eh-loyd):</span> <span class="glossdef">Relating to bone marrow and growth of cells originating in the bone marrow.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6725"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myeloma</b> (mi-eh-LO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of bone marrow.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6730"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myelomeningocele</b> (mi-eh-lo-meh-NIN-jo-seel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Congenital hernia (protrusion) of the spinal cord and meninges through a defect (gap) in the vertebral column. This defect is associated with spina bifida.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6735"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myelopathy</b> (mi-el-OP-ah-the):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease of the spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6740"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myelopoiesis</b> (mi-eh-lo-poy-E-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Formation of bone marrow.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6745"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myelosuppression</b> (mi-eh-lo-su-PRE-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bone marrow depression or impaired formation of blood cells (leukopenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6750"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myocardial</b> (mi-o-KAR-de-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the heart muscle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6755"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myocardial infarction</b> (mi-o-KAR-de-al in-FARK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Area of dead (necrotic) tissue in the heart muscle; heart attack.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6760"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myocardium</b> (mi-o-KAR-de-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Muscular layer of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6765"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myoma</b> (mi-O-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor (benign) of muscle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6770"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myomectomy</b> (mi-o-MEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of muscle tumors (fibroids) from the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6775"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myometrium</b> (mi-o-ME-tre-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Muscle layer of the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6780"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myoneural</b> (mi-o-NUR-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to muscle and nerve.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6785"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myopathy</b> (mi-OP-ah-the):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease of muscles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6790"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myopia</b> (mi-O-pe-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nearsightedness; vision condition in which close objects are seen more clearly than objects that are far.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6795"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myosarcoma</b> (mi-o-sar-KO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor (malignant) of muscle tissue; a type of sarcoma (tumor of flesh tissue in the body).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6800"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myositis</b> (mi-o-SI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of muscles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6805"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myringitis</b> (mir-in-JI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the eardrum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6810"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myringotomy</b> (mir-in-GOT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of the eardrum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6815"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myxedema</b> (mik-seh-DE-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Decreased secretion of the thyroid gland in adults.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6820"><span class="glossterm"><b>Myxoma</b> (mik-SO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Benign tumor of connective tissue in the heart muscle.</span></li></ul></section></body></html>