<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html lang="EN" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/><title>MINI-DICTIONARY</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../Style/media.css"/></head><body><section><a id="gs0075"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0075">N</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls6825"><span class="glossterm"><b>Narcissistic personality</b> (nar-sih-SIS-tik per-son-AL-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Characterized by grandiose sense of self-importance or preoccupation with fantasies of success or power; self-love without empathy for others.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6830"><span class="glossterm"><b>Narcolepsy</b> (NAR-ko-lep-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sudden seizures of sleep.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6835"><span class="glossterm"><b>Narcotic</b> (nar-KOT-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Habit-forming drug that relieves pain by producing stupor and insensibility; morphine and opium.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6840"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nares</b> (NA-reez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Openings through the nose carrying air into the nasal cavities.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6845"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nasal bones</b> (NA-zal bones):</span> <span class="glossdef">Two facial bones that form the nose.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6850"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nasogastric intubation</b> (na-zo-GAS-trik in-tu-BA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Placement of a tube through the nose into the stomach.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6855"><span class="glossterm"><b>Natural immunity</b> (NAH-tu-ral ih-MU-nih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Protection that an individual is born with to fight infection, such as neutrophils, monocytes, macrophages, and NK cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6860"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nausea</b> (NAW-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Unpleasant sensation in the stomach with a tendency to vomit.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="939" id="pagebreak_939"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6865"><span class="glossterm"><b>Necropsy</b> (NEH-krop-see):</span> <span class="glossdef">Viewing a dead body; used in veterinary medicine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6870"><span class="glossterm"><b>Necrosis</b> (neh-KRO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of death of cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6875"><span class="glossterm"><b>Necrotic</b> (neh-KROT-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to death of cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6880"><span class="glossterm"><b>Necrotic tumor</b> (neh-KROT-ik TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor that contains dead cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6885"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neoadjuvant chemotherapy</b> (ne-o-AD-ju-vant ke-mo-THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment of disease with drugs to assist or enhance before primary treatment, to reduce the size of the tumor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6890"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neonatal</b> (ne-o-NA-tal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a new birth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6895"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neonatology</b> (ne-o-na-TOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the medical care of the newborn (neonate).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6900"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neoplasm</b> (NE-o-plaz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">New growth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6905"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nephrectomy</b> (nef-REK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of a kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6910"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nephritis</b> (nef-RI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of a kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6915"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nephrolithiasis</b> (nef-ro-lih-THI-ah-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of kidney stones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6920"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nephrolithotomy</b> (nef-ro-lih-THOT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of the kidney to remove a stone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6925"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nephrologist</b> (nef-ROL-o-jist):</span> <span class="glossdef">A specialist in the study of the kidneys.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6930"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nephrology</b> (nef-ROL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the kidneys and kidney disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6935"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nephron</b> (NEF-ron):</span> <span class="glossdef">Functional unit of the kidney, consisting of a glomerulus, renal tubule, and collecting tubule.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6940"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nephropathy</b> (nef-ROP-ah-the):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease of the kidneys.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6945"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nephroptosis</b> (nef-rop-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Prolapse of a kidney; floating or wandering kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6950"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nephrosis</b> (nef-RO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6955"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nephrostomy</b> (nef-ROS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Opening of the kidney to the outside of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6960"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nephrotic syndrome</b> (nef-ROT-ik SIN-drohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Group of symptoms that occur due to loss of protein in the urine. Symptoms include edema (swelling of tissues), hypoalbuminemia (loss of protein from the blood), proteinuria, and susceptibility to infection. This condition is also known as nephrosis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6965"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nerve</b> (nerv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Macroscopic cordlike collection of fibers that carry electrical impulses.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6970"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neural</b> (NU-ral):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to nerves.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6975"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neuralgia</b> (nu-RAL-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nerve pain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6980"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neurasthenia</b> (nu-ras-THE-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lack of strength in nerves; a feeling of weakness and exhaustion.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6985"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neuroblastoma</b> (nu-ro-blas-TO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant childhood tumor originating in cells of the nervous system.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6990"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neurocognitive disorders</b> (nu-ro-KOG-nat-iv dis-OR-derz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Group of psychiatric disorders marked by disturbances in thinking, perception, reasoning, and judgment.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls6995"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neurodevelopmental disorders</b> (nu-ro-de-VEL-op-men-tal dis-OR-derz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Group of childhood disorders characterized by delays in the development of socialization and communication skills. Examples are autistic spectrum disorders and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7000"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neurofibromatosis</b> (nu-ro-fi-bro-mah-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Genetic disorder that causes tumors (usually noncancerous) to form in nerve tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7005"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neuroglial cells</b> (nu-ro-GLE-al selz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Glial cells; supporting and connective cells of the nervous system.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7010"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neurohypophysis</b> (nu-ro-hi-POF-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Posterior lobe of the pituitary gland; secretes oxytocin and vasopressin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7015"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neuroleptic drug</b> (nu-ro-LEP-tik drug):</span> <span class="glossdef">Suppresses psychotic symptoms and behavior; used in the treatment of psychotic symptoms in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Examples are aripiprazole (Abilify) and olanzapine (Zyprexa).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7020"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neurologic</b> (nu-ro-LOJ-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the study of nerves.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7025"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neurology</b> (nu-ROL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of nerves and nerve disorders.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7030"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neuron</b> (NU-ron):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nerve cell.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="940" id="pagebreak_940"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7035"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neuropathy</b> (nu-ROP-ah-the):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease of nerves; primarily in the peripheral nervous system.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7040"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neurotransmitter</b> (nu-ro-TRANZ-mit-er):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chemical messenger released at the end of a nerve cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7045"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neutropenia</b> (nu-tro-PE-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficiency of neutrophils.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7050"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neutrophil</b> (NU-tro-fil):</span> <span class="glossdef">White blood cell (granulocytic leukocyte) containing dark-staining granules and protecting the body from infection. Neutrophils are the most abundant type of white blood cell. Also called polymorphonuclear leukocyte.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7055"><span class="glossterm"><b>Neutrophilia</b> (nu-tro-FIL-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increased numbers of neutrophils.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7060"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nevus; <i>pl.</i> nevi</b> (NE-vus; NE-vi):</span> <span class="glossdef">Mole (pigmented lesion of the skin).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7065"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nitrates</b> (NI-trayts):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs used in the treatment of angina. They dilate blood vessels, increasing blood flow and oxygen to myocardial tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7070"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nitrogenous waste</b> (ni-TROJ-en-us waste):</span> <span class="glossdef">Substance containing nitrogen and excreted in urine; examples are urea, creatinine, and uric acid.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7075"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nitroglycerin</b> (ni-tro-GLIS-er-in):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug used in the treatment of angina. It dilates coronary arteries so that more blood flows to heart muscle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11500"><span class="glossterm"><b>NK cells</b> (NK sels):</span> <span class="glossdef">Natural killer cells; lymphocytes that are part of the body’s natural immunity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7080"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nocturia</b> (nok-TU-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Urinary frequency at night.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7085"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nodular goiter</b> (NOD-u-lar GOY-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enlargement of the thyroid gland due to growth of nodules (adenomas) on the thyroid gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7090"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nodule</b> (NOD-ule):</span> <span class="glossdef">Solid, round, or oval elevated lesion 1 cm or more in diameter.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7095"><span class="glossterm"><b>Non-Hodgkin lymphoma</b> (non-HOJ-kin limf-O-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Group of malignant tumors involving lymphoid tissue. Examples are follicular lymphoma and large cell lymphoma.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7100"><span class="glossterm"><b>Norepinephrine</b> (nor-ep-ih-NEF-rin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla; increases heart rate and blood pressure. Also called noradrenaline.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7105"><span class="glossterm"><b>Normal sinus rhythm</b> (NOR-mal SI-nus RIH-thim):</span> <span class="glossdef">Normal heart rhythm originating in the sinoatrial node; usually 60 to 100 beats per minute.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7110"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nuclear medicine</b> (NU-kle-ar MED-ih-sin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Medical specialty that studies the uses of radioactive substances (radionuclides and radiopharmaceuticals).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7115"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nucleic</b> (nu-CLA-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the nucleus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7120"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nucleotide</b> (NU-kle-o-tide):</span> <span class="glossdef">Unit of DNA (gene) composed of a sugar, phosphate, and a base. The sequence of nucleotides composing a gene is the genetic code.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7125"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nucleus</b> (NU-cle-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Control center of the cell; contains chromosomes and directs activities of the cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7130"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nulligravida</b> (nul-leh-GRAV-ih-dah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Woman who has never been pregnant.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7135"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nullipara</b> (nul-LIH-pah-rah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Woman who has never given birth to an infant.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7140"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nyctalopia</b> (nik-tah-LO-pe-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Night blindness; difficult, poor vision at night.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7145"><span class="glossterm"><b>Nystagmus</b> (nih-STAG-mus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Repetitive, rhythmic movements of one or both eyes.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0080"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0080">O</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls7150"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oblique</b> (oh-BLEEK):</span> <span class="glossdef">Positioned at an angle; an x-ray view.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7155"><span class="glossterm"><b>Obsession</b> (ob-SEH-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Involuntary, persistent idea, urge, or emotion.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7160"><span class="glossterm"><b>Obsessive-compulsive disorder</b> (ob-SES-iv com-PUL-siv dis-OR-der):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disorder in which recurrent thoughts and repetitive acts dominate behavior.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7165"><span class="glossterm"><b>Obstetrics</b> (ob-STET-riks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Branch of medicine and surgery dealing with the care of women during pregnancy and childbirth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7170"><span class="glossterm"><b>Obstructive lung disease</b> (ob-STRUK-tiv lung dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Narrowed airways result in resistance to airflow during breathing. Examples are asthma, bronchiectasis, COPD, and cystic fibrosis.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="941" id="pagebreak_941"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7175"><span class="glossterm"><b>Occipital bone</b> (ok-SIP-ih-tal bone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Posterior portion of the skull (cranium).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7180"><span class="glossterm"><b>Occlusion</b> (o-KLU-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blockage or obstruction.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7185"><span class="glossterm"><b>Olecranal</b> (o-LEK-ran-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the elbow (olecranon).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7190"><span class="glossterm"><b>Olecranon</b> (o-LEK-ran-on):</span> <span class="glossdef">Large process on the proximal end of the ulna at the elbow.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7195"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oligodendroglial cell</b> (ol-ih-go-den-dro-GLE-al sel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Glial cell that forms the myelin sheath covering the axon of a neuron.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7200"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oligomenorrhea</b> (ol-ig-o-men-o-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Scanty menstrual flow.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7205"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oligospermia</b> (ol-ih-go-SPER-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Scanty sperm count.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7210"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oliguria</b> (ol-ig-U-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Scanty urination.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7215"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oncogene</b> (ON-ko-jeen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Region of DNA in tumor cells (cellular oncogene) or in viruses (viral oncogene) that causes cancer.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7220"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oncologist</b> (on-KOL-o-gist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specialist in the study of tumors; particularly malignant (cancerous) tumors.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7225"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oncology</b> (on-KOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of tumors (malignant tumors).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7230"><span class="glossterm"><b>Onycholysis</b> (on-ih-KOL-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Loosening of the nail plate with separation from the nail bed.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7235"><span class="glossterm"><b>Onychomycosis</b> (on-ih-ko-mi-KO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fungal infection of a nail.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7240"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oocyte</b> (o-o-SITE):</span> <span class="glossdef">Immature egg cell from which an ovum develops.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7245"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oogenesis</b> (o-o-JEN-eh-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Formation of ova (egg cells).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7250"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oophorectomy</b> (oo-fo-REK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of an ovary.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7255"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oophoritis</b> (oo-fo-RI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of an ovary.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7260"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ophthalmic</b> (of-THAL-mik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7265"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ophthalmologist</b> (of-thal-MOL-o-jist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Medical doctor specializing in the diseases of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7270"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ophthalmology</b> (of-thal-MOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the eye and eye disorders.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7275"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ophthalmoplegia</b> (of-thal-mo-PLE-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Paralysis of muscles that move the eyeball.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7280"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ophthalmoscope</b> (of-THAL-mo-scope):</span> <span class="glossdef">Instrument to visually examine the eyes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7285"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ophthalmoscopy</b> (of-thal-MOS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Visual examination of the interior of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7290"><span class="glossterm"><b>Opioid</b> (O-pe-oyd):</span> <span class="glossdef">Substance either resembling or derived from opium. Examples are cocaine, morphine, and heroin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7295"><span class="glossterm"><b>Opportunistic infections</b> (op-por-too-NIS-tik in-FEK-shunz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Infectious diseases associated with AIDS; toxoplasmosis, tuberculosis, herpes simplex, and pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7300"><span class="glossterm"><b>Optic chiasm</b> (OP-tik KI-az-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">Point at which optic nerve fibers cross in the brain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7305"><span class="glossterm"><b>Optic disc</b> (OP-tik disc):</span> <span class="glossdef">Region at the back of the eye where the optic nerve meets the retina. It is the blind spot of the eye because it contains only nerve fibers, no rods or cones, and is thus insensitive to light.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7310"><span class="glossterm"><b>Optic nerve</b> (OP-tik nerv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cranial nerve carrying impulses from the retina to the brain (cerebral cortex).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7315"><span class="glossterm"><b>Optical coherence tomography</b> (OP-tih-kal ko-HEAR-antz to-MOH-grah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Noninvasive imaging technique using light waves to take cross-sectional pictures of the retina.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7320"><span class="glossterm"><b>Optician</b> (op-TISH-an):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nonmedical professional trained in grinding lenses and fitting eyeglasses.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7325"><span class="glossterm"><b>Optometrist</b> (op-TOM-eh-trist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nonmedical professional trained to examine and measure the eye to prescribe and fit eyeglasses and contact lenses.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7330"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oral</b> (OR-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the mouth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7335"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oral administration</b> (OR-al ad-min-is-TRA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs that are given by mouth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7340"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oral leukoplakia</b> (OR-al lu-ko-PLA-ke-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">White plaques or patches on the mucous membranes of the mouth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7345"><span class="glossterm"><b>Orchiectomy</b> (or-ke-EK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal (excision) of a testis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7350"><span class="glossterm"><b>Orchiopexy</b> (or-ke-o-PEK-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical fixation of an undescended testis into the scrotum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7355"><span class="glossterm"><b>Orchitis</b> (or-KI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of a testis.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="942" id="pagebreak_942"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7360"><span class="glossterm"><b>Organ of Corti</b> (OR-gan of COR-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sensitive auditory receptor area found in the cochlea of the inner ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7365"><span class="glossterm"><b>Orifice</b> (OR-ih-fis):</span> <span class="glossdef">An opening.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7370"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oropharynx</b> (or-o-FAR-inks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Central portion of the throat, just beyond the mouth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7375"><span class="glossterm"><b>Orthodontist</b> (or-tho-DON-tist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Dentist specializing in straightening teeth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7380"><span class="glossterm"><b>Orthopedics</b> (or-tho-PE-diks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical specialty devoted to straightening, correcting, and treating deformities and diseases in bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7385"><span class="glossterm"><b>Orthopnea</b> (or-THOP-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition in which breathing is only comfortable when a patient is in an upright position.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7390"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osseous tissue</b> (OS-e-us TIH-shu):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bone tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7395"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ossicle</b> (OS-ih-kel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small bone in the middle section of the ear; the malleus, incus, and stapes are ossicles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7400"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ossiculoplasty</b> (os-ih-ku-lo-PLAS-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of an ossicle (small bone) of the middle ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7405"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ossification</b> (os-if-ih-KA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of bone formation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7410"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteitis</b> (os-te-I-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7415"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteoarthritis</b> (os-te-o-ar-THRI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of bones and joints. This is a progressive, degenerative joint disease with loss of cartilage and hypertrophy of bone within the joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7420"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteoblast</b> (OS-te-o-blast):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bone cell that helps form bony tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7425"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteoclast</b> (OS-te-o-klast):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bone cell that absorbs and removes unwanted bony tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7430"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteodystrophy</b> (os-te-o-DIS-tro-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal development of bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7435"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteogenesis imperfecta</b> (os-te-o-JEN-eh-sis im-per-FEK-tah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Genetic disorder involving defective bone development. Bones are brittle and fragile, caused by abnormal collagen production; fractures occur with the slightest trauma.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7440"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteogenic</b> (os-te-o-JEN-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to produced in or by bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7445"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteogenic sarcoma</b> (os-te-o-JEN-ic sar-KO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cancerous (malignant) tumor produced in bone; osteosarcoma.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7450"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteomalacia</b> (os-te-o-mah-LA-shah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Softening of bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7455"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteomyelitis</b> (os-te-o-mi-eh-LI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of bone and bone marrow secondary to (following) infection.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7460"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteopenia</b> (os-te-o-PE-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficiency of bone; a precursor of osteoporosis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7465"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteoporosis</b> (os-te-o-por-O-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Decrease in bone density (mass); thinning and weakening of bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7470"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteosarcoma</b> (os-te-o-sar-KO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7475"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteotome</b> (OS-te-o-tome):</span> <span class="glossdef">Instrument to cut bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7480"><span class="glossterm"><b>Osteotomy</b> (os-te-OT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of a bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7485"><span class="glossterm"><b>Otalgia</b> (o-TAL-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Ear pain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7490"><span class="glossterm"><b>Otic</b> (O-tik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7495"><span class="glossterm"><b>Otitis media</b> (o-TI-tis ME-de-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the middle ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7500"><span class="glossterm"><b>Otolaryngologist</b> (o-to-lah-rin-GOL-o-jist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specialist (surgeon) in ear, nose, and throat disorders.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7505"><span class="glossterm"><b>Otomycosis</b> (o-to-mi-KO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fungal infection of the ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7510"><span class="glossterm"><b>Otopyorrhea</b> (o-to-pi-o-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Discharge of pus from the ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7515"><span class="glossterm"><b>Otosclerosis</b> (o-to-skleh-RO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hardening of the bony tissue of the middle ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7520"><span class="glossterm"><b>Otoscopy</b> (o-TOS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Visual examination of the ear canal using an otoscope.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7525"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oval window</b> (O-val WIN-do):</span> <span class="glossdef">Membrane between the middle ear and the inner ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7530"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ovarian</b> (o-VAH-re-an):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to an ovary.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7535"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ovarian cancer</b> (o-VAH-re-an KAN-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of the ovary (adenocarcinoma); ovarian carcinoma.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7540"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ovarian cysts</b> (o-VAH-re-an sists):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fluid-filled sacs within the ovary.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7545"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ovarian follicle</b> (o-VAH-re-an FOL-lih-kul):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tiny sac in the ovary that contains an egg cell (ovum).</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="943" id="pagebreak_943"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7550"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ovary</b> (O-vah-re):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of two small glands (female reproductive organs) responsible for egg production and hormone (estrogen and progesterone) secretion.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7555"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ovulation</b> (ov-u-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Release of the ovum (egg cell) from the ovary.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7560"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ovum; <i>pl</i>, ova</b> (O-vum; O-va):</span> <span class="glossdef">Mature egg cell (female gamete).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7565"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oxygen</b> (OX-ih-jen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Gas inhaled and entering the bloodstream through the lungs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7570"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oxytocia</b> (ox-e-TO-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rapid labor and childbirth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7575"><span class="glossterm"><b>Oxytocin</b> (ox-se-TO-sin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland; stimulates contractions of the uterus during childbirth.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0085"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0085">P</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls7580"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pacemaker</b> (PACE-ma-ker):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specialized nervous tissue (sinoatrial node) in the right atrial wall; it begins the heartbeat.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7585"><span class="glossterm"><b>Palate</b> (PAH-lat):</span> <span class="glossdef">Roof of the mouth; hard palate is the front bony portion and the soft palate is the posterior fleshy part near the throat.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7590"><span class="glossterm"><b>Palatine tonsil</b> (PAH-lih-tine TON-sil):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of a pair of almond-shaped masses of lymphatic tissue at the back of the mouth (oral pharynx).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7595"><span class="glossterm"><b>Palatopharyngoplasty</b> (pah-lat-o-fah-RIN-jo-plas-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of the pharynx and palate.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7600"><span class="glossterm"><b>Palatoplasty</b> (pah-LAT-to-plas-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of the palate (roof of the mouth).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7605"><span class="glossterm"><b>Palliative</b> (PAH-le-ah-tiv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Relieving symptoms, but not curative.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7610"><span class="glossterm"><b>Palpation</b> (pal-PA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Examining by touch.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7615"><span class="glossterm"><b>Palpebral</b> (pal-PE-bral):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to an eyelid.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7620"><span class="glossterm"><b>Palpitations</b> (pal-pih-TA-shunz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Uncomfortable sensations in the chest related to cardiac arrhythmias; feeling that the heart is fluttering or pounding.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7625"><span class="glossterm"><b>Palsy</b> (PAWL-ze):</span> <span class="glossdef">Paralysis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7630"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pancreas</b> (PAN-kre-as):</span> <span class="glossdef">Gland located under and behind the stomach; produces the hormone insulin to transport sugar to cells and enzymes to digest foods.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7635"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pancreatectomy</b> (pan-kre-ah-TEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excision of the pancreas.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7640"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pancreatic</b> (pan-kre-AH-tik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the pancreas.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7645"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pancreatic cancer</b> (pan-kre-AH-tik KAN-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of the pancreas.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7650"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pancreatitis</b> (pan-kre-ah-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the pancreas.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7655"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pancreatoduodenectomy</b> (pan-kre-ah-to-du-o-deh-NEK-tome):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of the pancreas (partial) and duodenum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7660"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pancytopenia</b> (pan-si-to-PE-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficiency of all (blood) cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7665"><span class="glossterm"><b>Panhypopituitarism</b> (pan-hi-po-pih-TU-ih-tar-iz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficiency of all pituitary gland hormones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7670"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pap test</b> (pap test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Microscopic examination of stained cells removed from the vagina and cervix; Pap smear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7675"><span class="glossterm"><b>Papillae</b> (pap-IL-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small elevations on the surface of the tongue; containing taste buds.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7680"><span class="glossterm"><b>Papillary</b> (PAP-ih-lair-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to nipple-like projections. A papillary tumor forms microscopic nipple-like or finger-like projections of cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7685"><span class="glossterm"><b>Papilledema</b> (pap-ih-leh-DE-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Swelling of the optic disc; associated with increased pressure within the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7690"><span class="glossterm"><b>Papule</b> (PAP-ul):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small (less than 1 cm in diameter), solid elevation of the skin; skin tags and pimples (as in acne) are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7695"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paraaortic nodes</b> (par-ah-a-OR-tik nodes):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lymph nodes near the aorta in the lumbar (waist) area of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7700"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paracentesis</b> (par-ah-sen-TE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Puncture to remove fluid from the abdomen; abdominocentesis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7705"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paralysis</b> (pah-RAL-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Destruction of nerve tissue leading to loss of sensation or motion in a part of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7710"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paranasal sinus</b> (par-ah-NA-zal SI-nus):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of a pair of air cavities in the bones near the nose.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="944" id="pagebreak_944"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7715"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paranephric</b> (par-ah-NEF-rik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to beside or near a kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7720"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paranoia</b> (par-ah-NOY-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Overly suspicious system of thinking with fixed delusions that one is being harassed, persecuted, or unfairly treated.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7725"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paranoid personality</b> (PAR-ah-noyd per-son-AL-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Characterized by recurrent delusions of persecution and jealousy with suspicion and mistrust of other people.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7730"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paraphilic disorders</b> (par-ah-FIL-ik dis-OR-derz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Characterized by recurrent, intense sexual urge; fantasy or behavior that involves sexual objects, activities, and situations.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7735"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paraplegia</b> (par-ah-PLE-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Paralysis of the lower part of the body and both legs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7740"><span class="glossterm"><b>Parasympathetic nerves</b> (par-ah-sim-pah-THET-ik nervz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Involuntary autonomic nerves that regulate normal body functions, such as heart rate, breathing, and muscles of the gastrointestinal tract.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7745"><span class="glossterm"><b>Parathormone</b> (par-ah-THOR-mone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Secreted by the parathyroid glands; increases blood calcium.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7750"><span class="glossterm"><b>Parathyroid glands</b> (par-ah-THI-royd glanz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Four endocrine glands on the posterior (dorsal) side of the thyroid gland; secrete parathormone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7755"><span class="glossterm"><b>Parathyroidectomy</b> (par-ah-thi-roy-DEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of parathyroid glands.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7760"><span class="glossterm"><b>Parenchyma</b> (pah-RENK-ih-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Essential functioning cells of any organ.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7765"><span class="glossterm"><b>Parenchymal tissue</b> (pah-RENK-ih-mal TIH-shu):</span> <span class="glossdef">Functional essential tissue of an organ.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7770"><span class="glossterm"><b>Parenteral</b> (par-EN-ter-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to by some route other than through the gastrointestinal tract, as by intravenous injection.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7775"><span class="glossterm"><b>Parenteral administration</b> (par-EN-ter-al ad-min-is-TRA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs or nourishment are given intravenously (within a vein) or by any other route besides the intestinal tract.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7780"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paresis</b> (pah-RE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Slight paralysis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7785"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paresthesia</b> (pah-res-THE-ze-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal nervous sensation occurring without apparent cause. Examples are tingling, numbness or prickling sensations.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7790"><span class="glossterm"><b>Parietal bone</b> (pah-RI-eh-tal bone):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of two bones on either side of the skull.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7795"><span class="glossterm"><b>Parietal pleura</b> (pah-RI-eh-tal PLU-rah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Outer layer of the pleura lying closest to the chest wall.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7800"><span class="glossterm"><b>Parkinson disease</b> (PAR-kin-sun dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Degeneration of nerve cells that produce the neurotransmitter dopamine in the brain; leads to tremors, weakness of muscles, and slowness of movement.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7805"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paronychia</b> (par-o-NIK-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation and swelling of the skin folds around a nail.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7810"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paronychium</b> (par-on-NIK-e-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Soft tissue surrounding the nail border.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7815"><span class="glossterm"><b>Parotid gland</b> (par-OT-id gland):</span> <span class="glossdef">Salivary gland within the cheek, just anterior to the ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7820"><span class="glossterm"><b>Paroxysmal</b> (par-ox-IZ-mal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a sudden occurrence.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7825"><span class="glossterm"><b>Parturition</b> (par-tu-RIH-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Act of giving birth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7830"><span class="glossterm"><b>Patella</b> (pah-TEL-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Kneecap.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7835"><span class="glossterm"><b>Patent</b> (PA-tent):</span> <span class="glossdef">Open.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7840"><span class="glossterm"><b>Patent ductus arteriosus</b> (PA-tent DUK-tus ar-te-re-O-sus):</span> <span class="glossdef">The ductus arteriosus, a small duct that is open during fetal circulation, fails to close at birth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7845"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pathogenesis</b> (path-o-JEN-eh-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Development of disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7850"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pathogenic</b> (path-o-jen-ic):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to producing disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7855"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pathologic</b> (path-o-LOJ-ic):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the study of disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7860"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pathologist</b> (path-OL-o-jist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specialist in the study of disease; evaluates biopsies and performs autopsies.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7865"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pathology</b> (path-OL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7870"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pediatric</b> (pe-de-AH-trik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to treatment of children.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7875"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pedophilic disorder</b> (ped-uh-FIL-ik dis-OR-der):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sexual urges and fantasies involving children.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="945" id="pagebreak_945"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7880"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pedunculated</b> (peh-DUNG-ku-la-ted):</span> <span class="glossdef">Possessing a stem or stalk (peduncle).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7885"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pelvic</b> (PEL-vik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the pelvis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7890"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pelvic cavity</b> (PEL-vik KAV-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Space below the abdomen containing portions of the intestines, rectum, urinary bladder, and reproductive organs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7895"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pelvic inflammatory disease</b> (PEL-vik in-FLAM-mah-tor-e dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation and infection of organs in the pelvis and abdomen; salpingitis, oophoritis, endometritis, endocervicitis; PID.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7900"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pelvic ultrasonography</b> (PEL-vic ul-trah-son-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Recording images of sound waves as they bounce off organs in the pelvic region.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7905"><span class="glossterm"><b>Penile</b> (PE-nile):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the penis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7910"><span class="glossterm"><b>Penis</b> (PE-nis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Male genital organ composed of erectile tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7915"><span class="glossterm"><b>Penoscrotal</b> (pe-no-SKRO-tal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the penis and scrotum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7920"><span class="glossterm"><b>Peptic ulcer</b> (PEP-tic UL-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Open sore in the lining of the stomach or duodenum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7925"><span class="glossterm"><b>Percussion</b> (per-KUH-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tapping on the surface of the body to determine the underlying structure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7930"><span class="glossterm"><b>Percutaneous</b> (per-ku-TA-ne-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to through the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7935"><span class="glossterm"><b>Percutaneous coronary intervention</b> (per-ku-TA-ne-us KOR-ih-nair-e in-ter-VEN-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">A catheter with a balloon and stent is inserted into a coronary artery to remove collections of plaque. Drug-eluting stents release chemicals to keep debris and plaque from recollecting.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7940"><span class="glossterm"><b>Perianal</b> (peh-re-A-nal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to surrounding the anus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7945"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pericardial friction rub</b> (peh-rih-KAR-de-al FRIK-shun rub):</span> <span class="glossdef">Scraping or grating sound heard on auscultation of the heart. It is usually symptomatic of pericarditis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7950"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pericardiocentesis</b> (peh-rih-kar-de-o-sen-TE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical puncture to remove fluid within the pericardial space surrounding the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7955"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pericarditis</b> (peh-rih-kar-DI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the pericardium (double-layered outermost membrane of the heart).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7960"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pericardium</b> (peh-rih-KAR-de-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Double-layered membrane surrounding the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7965"><span class="glossterm"><b>Perilymph</b> (PEH-rih-limf):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fluid contained in the labyrinth (canals of the inner ear).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7970"><span class="glossterm"><b>Perimetrium</b> (peh-rih-ME-tre-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Outermost layer of the uterus; uterine serosa.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7975"><span class="glossterm"><b>Perineorrhaphy</b> (peh-rih-ne-OR-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Suture of the perineum (following an episiotomy).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7980"><span class="glossterm"><b>Perineum</b> (peh-rih-NE-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Area between the anus and vagina in females and the area between the anus and scrotal sac in males.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7985"><span class="glossterm"><b>Periodontal disease</b> (peh-re-o-DON-tal dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation and degeneration of gums, teeth, and surrounding bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7990"><span class="glossterm"><b>Periodontal membrane</b> (peh-re-o-DON-tal MEM-brayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Membrane that surrounds the tooth in the tooth socket.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls7995"><span class="glossterm"><b>Periodontist</b> (peh-re-o-DON-tist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Dentist specializing in treating the gums.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8000"><span class="glossterm"><b>Periosteum</b> (peh-re-OS-te-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Membrane surrounding bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8005"><span class="glossterm"><b>Peripheral nervous system</b> (peh-RIF-er-alNER-vusSIS-tem):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nerves outside the brain and spinal cord; cranial, spinal, and autonomic nerves.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8010"><span class="glossterm"><b>Peripheral vascular disease</b> (peh-RIH-fer-al ar-TE-re-al dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blockage of blood vessels outside the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8015"><span class="glossterm"><b>Peristalsis</b> (per-ih-STAHL-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rhythmic contractions of the tubes of the gastrointestinal tract and other tubular structures.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8020"><span class="glossterm"><b>Peritoneal</b> (peh-rih-to-NE-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the peritoneum (double-layered membrane surrounding the abdomen).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8025"><span class="glossterm"><b>Peritoneal dialysis</b> (peh-rih-to-NE-al di-AL-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Separation of nitrogenous wastes from the bloodstream by introducing fluid into the peritoneal cavity. Wastes then leave the bloodstream and enter the fluid, which is drained through an abdominal catheter.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8030"><span class="glossterm"><b>Peritoneum</b> (peh-reh-to-NE-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Double-folded membrane surrounding the abdominal cavity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8035"><span class="glossterm"><b>Peritonitis</b> (peh-rih-to-NI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the peritoneum.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="946" id="pagebreak_946"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8040"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pernicious anemia</b> (per-NIH-shus ah-NE-me-uh):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lack of mature erythrocytes caused by inability to absorb vitamin B<sub>12</sub> into the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8045"><span class="glossterm"><b>Personality disorders</b> (per-son-AL-ih-te dis-OR-derz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Established, lifelong pattern marked by inflexibility and impairment of social functioning.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8050"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pertussis</b> (per-TUH-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Whooping cough; bacterial infection of the throat, larynx, and trachea.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8055"><span class="glossterm"><b>PET/CT scan</b> (PET-CT skan):</span> <span class="glossdef">Diagnostic procedure combining PET (positron emission tomography) and CT (computed tomography). It is often used to detect metastatic cancer and determine whether the cancer is responding to treatment.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8060"><span class="glossterm"><b>Petechia; <i>pl</i>. petechiae</b> (peh-TE-ke-ah; peh-TE-ke-i):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small pinpoint hemorrhage under the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8065"><span class="glossterm"><b>Peyronie disease</b> (pah-RO-ne dih-zeez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal curvature of the penis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8070"><span class="glossterm"><b>Phacoemulsification</b> (fa-ko-eh-mul-sih-fih-KA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cataract removal surgery in which ultrasonic vibrations break up a cloudy lens; the pieces are then aspirated through the ultrasonic probe. A new intraocular lens (IOL) is inserted following phacoemulsification.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8075"><span class="glossterm"><b>Phagocyte</b> (FA-go-site):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cell that engulfs another cell or foreign organism and destroys it.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8080"><span class="glossterm"><b>Phalangeal</b> (fah-lan-JE-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to finger and toe bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8085"><span class="glossterm"><b>Phalanges</b> (fah-LAN-jeez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Finger and toe bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8090"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pharmacist</b> (FAR-mah-sist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specialist in preparing and dispensing drugs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8095"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pharmacodynamics</b> (far-mah-ko-di-NAM-iks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the effects and strength of a drug within the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8100"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pharmacokinetics</b> (far-mah-ko-kih-NEH-tiks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Calculation of drug concentration in tissues and body fluids over a period of time.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8105"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pharmacologist</b> (far-mah-KOL-o-jist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specialist in the study of the properties, uses, and actions of drugs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8110"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pharmacology</b> (far-mah-KOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the properties, uses, and actions of drugs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8115"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pharmacy</b> (FAR-mah-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Location for preparing and dispensing drugs; study of preparing and dispensing drugs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8120"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pharyngeal</b> (fah-rin-JE-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the pharynx (throat).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8125"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pharynx</b> (FAH-rinks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Throat.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8130"><span class="glossterm"><b>Phenothiazines</b> (fe-no-THI-ah-zeenz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs used to treat serious mental illnesses or psychoses. They modify psychotic symptoms (delusions and hallucinations) and behavior.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8135"><span class="glossterm"><b>Phenylketonuria</b> (fe-nil-ke-to-NU-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excess of phenylketones in the urine; diagnosed by a PKU test at birth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8140"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pheochromocytoma</b> (fe-o-kro-mo-si-TO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Benign tumor of the adrenal medulla; cells stain a dark or dusky (phe/o) color (chrom/o).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8145"><span class="glossterm"><b>Phimosis</b> (fih-MO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Narrowing of the opening of the foreskin over the glans penis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8150"><span class="glossterm"><b>Phlebotomy</b> (fleh-BOT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of a vein (for the removal of blood).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8155"><span class="glossterm"><b>Phobia</b> (FO-be-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Irrational fear of an object or a situation; claustrophobia (fear of closed spaces), agoraphobia (fear of leaving home or a safe place), and acrophobia (fear of heights) are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8160"><span class="glossterm"><b>Phosphorus</b> (FOS-fo-rus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Mineral substance found in bones in combination with calcium.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8165"><span class="glossterm"><b>Photon therapy</b> (FO-ton THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radiation treatment using x-rays and gamma rays delivered to tumor tissue via a linear accelerator.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8170"><span class="glossterm"><b>Photophobia</b> (fo-to-FO-be-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sensitivity to light.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8175"><span class="glossterm"><b>Photoselective vaporization of the prostate</b> (fo-to-seh-LEK-tiv va-por-ih-ZA-shun of the PROS-tayt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of tissue to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) using a GreenLight laser.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8180"><span class="glossterm"><b>Phrenic nerve</b> (FREN-ik nerv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Carries impulses between the brain and the diaphragm.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8185"><span class="glossterm"><b>Physiatrist</b> (fih-ZI-ah-trist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Medical doctor specializing in rehabilitation (physi/o means function).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8190"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pia mater</b> (PE-ah MAH-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Thin, delicate, and innermost membrane of the meninges.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8195"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pilonidal cyst</b> (pi-lo-NI-dal sist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal sac containing hair and skin debris located near the tailbone.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="947" id="pagebreak_947"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8200"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pilosebaceous</b> (pi-lo-seh-BA-shus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to hair follicles and sebaceous glands.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8205"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pineal gland</b> (pi-NE-al gland):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small endocrine gland in the center of the brain; secretes melatonin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8210"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pinna</b> (PIN-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Auricle; protruding part of the external ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8215"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pituitary gland</b> (pih-TU-ih-ter-e gland):</span> <span class="glossdef">Endocrine gland at the base of the brain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8220"><span class="glossterm"><b>Placenta</b> (plah-SEN-tah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Vascular organ that develops in the uterine wall during pregnancy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8225"><span class="glossterm"><b>Placenta previa</b> (plah-sen-tah PRE-ve-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal implantation of the placenta over the cervical opening or in the lower region of the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8230"><span class="glossterm"><b>Plantar flexion</b> (PLAN-tar FLEK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Motion that extends the foot downward toward the ground.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8235"><span class="glossterm"><b>Plasma</b> (PLAZ-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Liquid portion of blood containing proteins, water, salts, nutrients, wastes, hormones, and vitamins.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8240"><span class="glossterm"><b>Plasma cell</b> (PLAZ-mah sel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lymphocyte that secretes antibodies. It matures from B lymphocytes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8245"><span class="glossterm"><b>Plasmapheresis</b> (plaz-mah-feh-RE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of plasma from withdrawn blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8250"><span class="glossterm"><b>Platelet</b> (PLAYT-let):</span> <span class="glossdef">Clotting cell; thrombocyte.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8255"><span class="glossterm"><b>Platelet count</b> (PLAT-let kownt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Number of platelets per cubic millimeter (mm<sup>3</sup>) or microliter (mL) of blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8260"><span class="glossterm"><b>Plateletpheresis</b> (playt-let-feh-RE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Separation of platelets from the rest of the blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8265"><span class="glossterm"><b>Play therapy</b> (play THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">The use of play and toys to help children express conflicts and feelings that they are unable to communicate in a direct manner.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8270"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pleomorphic</b> (ple-o-MOR-fik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a variety of shapes or cell types.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8275"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pleura</b> (PLUR-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Double-layered membrane surrounding each lung.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8280"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pleural</b> (PLUR-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the pleura (double-layered membrane surrounding the lungs).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8285"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pleural cavity</b> (PLUR-al KAV-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Space between the layers of the pleura.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8290"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pleural effusion</b> (PLUR-al eh-FU-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collection of fluid in the pleural cavity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8295"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pleural rub</b> (PLUR-al rub):</span> <span class="glossdef">Scratchy sound produced by inflamed or irritated pleural surfaces rubbing against each other.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8300"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pleurisy</b> (PLUR-ih-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the pleura; pleuritis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8305"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pleurodynia</b> (plur-o-DIN-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pain associated with the pleura.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8310"><span class="glossterm"><b>Plexus</b> (PLEK-sus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Network of nerves outside of the central nervous system; brachial, cervical, and lumbosacral plexuses are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls83610"><span class="glossterm"><b>PSMA PET scan</b> (PSMA pet skan):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radioactive imaging technique to detect prostate cancer metastases, using a tracer drug injected into the bloodstream. It can be used in conjunction with CT and MRI scans.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8315"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pneumoconiosis</b> (nu-mo-ko-ne-O-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal lung condition caused by exposure to certain dusts; with chronic inflammation, infection, and bronchitis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8320"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pneumonectomy</b> (nu-mo-NEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of a lung.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8325"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pneumonia</b> (nu-MO-nyah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Acute inflammation and infection of the alveoli of the lungs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8330"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pneumonitis</b> (nu-mo-NI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the lungs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8335"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pneumothorax</b> (nu-mo-THO-rax):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collection of air or gas in the pleural cavity between the pleura.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8340"><span class="glossterm"><b>Podagra</b> (po-DAG-rah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Foot pain that occurs in the joint of the big toe in gout (gouty arthritis).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8345"><span class="glossterm"><b>Poikilocytosis</b> (poy-kih-lo-si-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Variation in the shape of red blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8350"><span class="glossterm"><b>Poliomyelitis</b> (po-le-o-mi-eh-LI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the gray matter of the spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8355"><span class="glossterm"><b>Polyarthritis</b> (pol-e-arth-RI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of many joints.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8360"><span class="glossterm"><b>Polycystic kidney disease</b> (pol-e-SIS-tik KID-ne dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Kidneys are filled with cysts that prevent normal kidney function.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8365"><span class="glossterm"><b>Polycythemia vera</b> (pol-e-si-THE-me-ah VER-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increase in numbers of red blood cells (erythremia).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8370"><span class="glossterm"><b>Polydipsia</b> (pol-e-DIP-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive thirst.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="948" id="pagebreak_948"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8375"><span class="glossterm"><b>Polymorphonuclear</b> (pol-e-mor-fo-NU-kle-ar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a multilobed nucleus (in granulocytic white blood cells).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8380"><span class="glossterm"><b>Polymorphonuclear leukocyte</b> (pol-e-morf-o-NU-kle-ar lu-ko-site):</span> <span class="glossdef">White blood cell with multilobed nucleus and dark-staining granules. These cells fight infection.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8385"><span class="glossterm"><b>Polymyalgia</b> (pol-e-mi-AL-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pain of many (several) muscles, especially in the shoulders and hips.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8390"><span class="glossterm"><b>Polymyositis</b> (pol-e-mi-o-SI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of many muscles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8395"><span class="glossterm"><b>Polyneuritis</b> (pol-e-nu-RI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of many nerves.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8400"><span class="glossterm"><b>Polyphagia</b> (pol-e-FA-je-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive eating.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8405"><span class="glossterm"><b>Polypoid tumor</b> (POL-ih-poyd TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Type of tumor resembling a polyp (benign growth) that protrudes from a base.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8410"><span class="glossterm"><b>Polyuria</b> (pol-e-U-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive urination.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8415"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pons</b> (ponz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Part of the brainstem anterior to the cerebellum, between the medulla and the rest of the brain. The pons connects the upper and lower portions of the brain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8420"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pore</b> (por):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tiny opening on the surface of the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8425"><span class="glossterm"><b>Portal vein</b> (POR-tal vayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Large vein bringing blood to the liver from the intestines.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8430"><span class="glossterm"><b>Positron emission tomography</b> (POS-ih-tron e-MIH-shun to-MOG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radioactive glucose is injected and then detected in tissues of the body to image the metabolic activity of cells; PET scan.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8435"><span class="glossterm"><b>Positron emission tomography of the heart</b> (POS-ih-tron e-MIH-shun to-MOG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Images show blood flow and myocardial function following uptake of radioactive substances; PET scan of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8440"><span class="glossterm"><b>Positron emission tomography of the lung</b> (POS-ih-tron e-MIH-shun to-MOG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radioactive glucose is injected, and images reveal metabolic activity in the lungs; PET scan of the lung.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8445"><span class="glossterm"><b>Postauricular</b> (post-aw-RIK-u-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to behind the ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8450"><span class="glossterm"><b>Posterior</b> (pos-TE-re-or):</span> <span class="glossdef">Back or dorsal surface of the body or structure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8455"><span class="glossterm"><b>Posteroanterior</b> (pos-te-ro-an-TE-re-or):</span> <span class="glossdef">In this position, x-ray beams pass from the back to the front of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8460"><span class="glossterm"><b>Postmortem</b> (post-MOR-tem):</span> <span class="glossdef">After death.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8465"><span class="glossterm"><b>Postpartum</b> (post-PAR-tum):</span> <span class="glossdef">After birth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8470"><span class="glossterm"><b>Postprandial</b> (post-PRAN-de-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">After meals.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8475"><span class="glossterm"><b>Post-traumatic stress disorder</b> (post-traw-MAH-tik stres dis-OR-der):</span> <span class="glossdef">Anxiety-related symptoms appearing after personal experience of a traumatic event.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8480"><span class="glossterm"><b>Potassium</b> (po-TAS-e-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chemical element (K) that forms salts with other minerals such as calcium and is vital for bodily processes. When dissolved in water, it is an electrolyte whose balance is regulated by the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8485"><span class="glossterm"><b>Precancerous</b> (pre-KAN-ser-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to occurring before a malignant condition.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8490"><span class="glossterm"><b>Preeclampsia</b> (pre-e-KLAMP-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition associated with pregnancy, marked by high blood pressure, proteinuria, edema, and headache.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8495"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pregnancy</b> (PREG-nan-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of having a developing embryo and fetus in the body for about 40 weeks; gestation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8500"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pregnancy test</b> (PREG-nan-se test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood or urine test to detect the presence of the hormone HCG.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8505"><span class="glossterm"><b>Premolar teeth</b> (pre-MO-lar teeth):</span> <span class="glossdef">Two teeth before the molars.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8510"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prenatal</b> (pre-NA-tal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to before birth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8515"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prepuce</b> (PRE-pus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fold of skin covering the glans penis; foreskin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8520"><span class="glossterm"><b>Presbycusis</b> (prez-be-KU-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Progressive loss of hearing, occurring in middle and older age.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8525"><span class="glossterm"><b>Presbyopia</b> (prez-be-O-pe-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Impairment of vision as a result of old age.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8530"><span class="glossterm"><b>Primigravida</b> (prih-mih-GRAV-ih-dah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Woman during her first pregnancy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8535"><span class="glossterm"><b>Primipara</b> (prih-MIH-pah-rah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Woman who has given birth to her first child.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8540"><span class="glossterm"><b>Primiparous</b> (pri-MIH-pah-rus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a woman who has given birth to her first child.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8545"><span class="glossterm"><b>Proctologist</b> (prok-TOL-o-jist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specialist in the study of the anus and the rectum.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="949" id="pagebreak_949"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8550"><span class="glossterm"><b>Proctosigmoidoscopy</b> (prok-to-sig-moyd-OS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Visual (endoscopic) examination of the anus, rectum, and sigmoid colon.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8555"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prodrome</b> (PRO-drohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sign or symptom that appears before the onset of a more serious illness. An example of a prodrome is the fever that signals the onset of a viral illness.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8560"><span class="glossterm"><b>Progesterone</b> (pro-JES-te-rone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the ovaries; maintains the lining of the uterus during pregnancy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8565"><span class="glossterm"><b>Progestin</b> (pro-JES-tin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone that stimulates the uterine lining during pregnancy and is used in treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding and hormone replacement therapy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8570"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prognosis</b> (prog-NO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Prediction about the outcome of an illness; knowledge beforehand.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8575"><span class="glossterm"><b>Projective test</b> (pro-JEK-tiv test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Diagnostic personality test using unstructured stimuli (inkblots, pictures, incomplete sentences) to evoke responses that reflect aspects of an individual’s personality.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8580"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prolactin</b> (pro-LAK-tin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Secreted by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland; promotes milk secretion.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8585"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prolapse</b> (PRO-laps):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sliding forward or downward.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8590"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pronation</b> (pro-NA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">As applied to the hand and forearm, the act of turning the palm down.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8595"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prone</b> (prohn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lying on the belly (face down, palms down).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8600"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prostate cancer</b> (PROS-tayt KAN-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor (adenocarcinoma) of the prostate gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8605"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prostate gland</b> (PROS-tayt gland):</span> <span class="glossdef">Gland in men that surrounds the neck of the urinary bladder and urethra. It produces a fluid that, after combining with sperm cells, leaves the body as semen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8610"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prostatectomy</b> (pros-tah-TEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal (excision) of the prostate gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8615"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prostatitis</b> (pros-tah-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the prostate gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8620"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prosthesis</b> (pros-THE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Artificial substitute for a missing body part.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8625"><span class="glossterm"><b>Protease</b> (PRO-te-ayz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enzyme that digests protein.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8630"><span class="glossterm"><b>Protease inhibitors</b> (PRO-te-ayz in-HIB-ih-torz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs that treat AIDS by blocking the production of protease, a proteolytic enzyme that helps create new viral pieces for HIV.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8635"><span class="glossterm"><b>Protein marker tests</b> (PRO-teen MARK-er tests):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurements of the level of specific proteins in the blood or on the surface of tumor cells; PSA, CA-125, and alpha-fetoprotein are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8640"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prothrombin</b> (pro-THROM-bin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Plasma protein converted to thrombin in the clotting process.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8645"><span class="glossterm"><b>Prothrombin time</b> (pro-THROM-bin time):</span> <span class="glossdef">Test of the ability of blood to clot.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8650"><span class="glossterm"><b>Protocol</b> (PRO-to-kol):</span> <span class="glossdef">Detailed plan for treatment of an illness.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8655"><span class="glossterm"><b>Proton therapy</b> (PRO-ton THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Subatomic particles (protons) produced by a cyclotron deposit absorbed dose of radiation at a finite, focused point in the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8660"><span class="glossterm"><b>Proximal</b> (PROKS-ih-mal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Near the point of attachment or near the beginning of a structure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8665"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pruritus</b> (pru-RI-tus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Itching.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8670"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pseudocyesis</b> (su-do-si-E-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">False pregnancy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8675"><span class="glossterm"><b>Psoriasis</b> (so-RI-ah-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic, recurrent dermatosis marked by itchy, scaly red plaques covered by silvery gray scales.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8680"><span class="glossterm"><b>Psychiatrist</b> (si-KI-ah-trist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Physician who treats the mind and mental disorders.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8685"><span class="glossterm"><b>Psychiatry</b> (si-KI-ah-tre):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment of the mind.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8690"><span class="glossterm"><b>Psychoanalysis</b> (si-ko-an-AL-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Form of psychotherapy in which patients explore their unconscious emotions and past to understand and change current behaviors and feelings.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8695"><span class="glossterm"><b>Psychodrama</b> (si-ko-DRA-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Group therapy in which a patient expresses feelings by acting out roles with other patients.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8700"><span class="glossterm"><b>Psychogenic</b> (si-ko-JEN-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to produced within the mind; having emotional and psychologic origin, rather than a physical cause.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8705"><span class="glossterm"><b>Psychologist</b> (si-KOL-o-jist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Individual (Ph.D, Psy.D, or Ed.D) specializing in mental processes and how the brain functions in health and disease; treats patients with psychotherapy.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="950" id="pagebreak_950"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8710"><span class="glossterm"><b>Psychology</b> (si-KOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of the mind.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8715"><span class="glossterm"><b>Psychopharmacology</b> (si-ko-far-mah-KOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment of psychiatric disorders with drugs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8720"><span class="glossterm"><b>Psychosis</b> (si-KO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Loss of contact with reality; often with delusions and hallucinations.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8725"><span class="glossterm"><b>Psychosomatic</b> (si-ko-so-MAT-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the interrelationship of the mind (psych/o) and body (somat/o).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8730"><span class="glossterm"><b>Psychotherapy</b> (si-ko-THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment of the mind; talk therapy for mental disorders and emotional difficulties.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8735"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ptosis</b> (TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Prolapse, drooping, sagging of the upper eyelid.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8740"><span class="glossterm"><b>Puberty</b> (PU-ber-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Period of adolescence at which secondary sex characteristics appear and gametes are produced.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8745"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pubic</b> (PU-bik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the anterior part of the pelvis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8750"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pubic symphysis</b> (PU-bik SIM-fih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Junction of the two pubic bones in the anterior of the pelvis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8755"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pubis</b> (PU-bis):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of two bones forming the front portion of the pelvis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8760"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulmonary</b> (PUL-mo-nair-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the lungs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8765"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulmonary parenchyma</b> (pul-mo-NAIR-e pah-RENK-ih-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Essential parts of the lungs responsible for respiration; bronchioles and alveoli.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8770"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulmonary abscess</b> (PUL-mo-nair-e AB-ses):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collection of pus in the lungs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8775"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulmonary artery</b> (PUL-mo-ner-eAR-teh-re):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood vessel carrying oxygen-poor blood from the right ventricle of the heart to the lungs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8780"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulmonary circulation</b> (PUL-mo-ner-e ser-ku-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Flow of blood from the heart to the lungs and then back to the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8785"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulmonary edema</b> (PUL-mo-nair-e eh-DE-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collection of fluid in the air sacs and bronchioles of the lung.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8790"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulmonary embolism</b> (PUL-mo-nair-e EM-bo-liz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">Clot or material from a distant vein that blocks a blood vessel in the lung.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8795"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulmonary fibrosis</b> (PUL-mo-nair-e fi-BRO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Formation of scar tissue in the connective tissue of the lung.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8800"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulmonary function tests</b> (PUL-mo-nair-e FUNK-shuntests):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tests that measure the ventilation (breathing) mechanics of the lungs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8805"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulmonary infarction</b> (PUL-mo-nair-e in-FARK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Area of necrosis (death of cells) in lung tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8810"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulmonary valve</b> (PUL-mo-nair-e valv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Valve between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8815"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulmonary vein</b> (PUL-mo-nair-e vayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of two pairs of vessels carrying oxygenated blood from the lungs to the left atrium of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8820"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulp</b> (pulp):</span> <span class="glossdef">Soft tissue with in a tooth, containing nerves and blood vessels.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8825"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pulse</b> (puls):</span> <span class="glossdef">Beat of the heart as felt through the walls of the arteries.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8830"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pupil</b> (PU-pil):</span> <span class="glossdef">Central opening of the eye, surrounded by the iris, through which light rays pass. It appears dark.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8835"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pupillary</b> (PU-pih-lair-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the pupil of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8840"><span class="glossterm"><b>Purgative</b> (PUR-gat-ive):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that relieves constipation and is a strong cathartic.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8845"><span class="glossterm"><b>Purpura</b> (PUR-pur-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Multiple pinpoint hemorrhages and the accumulation of blood under the skin caused by a deficiency of clotting cells (platelets).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8850"><span class="glossterm"><b>Purulent</b> (PU-ru-lent):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pus-filled; forming or containing pus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8855"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pustule</b> (PUS-tule):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small abscess (collection of pus) on the skin; a papule containing pus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8860"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pyelogram</b> (PI-eh-lo-gram):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray record of the kidneys (renal pelvis) and urinary tract after contrast is injected (intravenously or retrograde).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8865"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pyelolithotomy</b> (pi-el-o-lith-OT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision to remove a stone from the renal pelvis of the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8870"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pyelonephritis</b> (pi-el-o-nef-RI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the renal pelvis and kidney; caused by bacterial infection.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8875"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pyloric sphincter</b> (pi-LOR-ik SFINK-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Ring of muscle that surrounds the opening of the stomach to the duodenum.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="951" id="pagebreak_951"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8880"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pyloric stenosis</b> (pi-LOR-ik steh-NO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Narrowing of the pyloric sphincter (opening of the stomach to the duodenum); often occurs in infants between birth and 6 months of age.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8885"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pyloroplasty</b> (pi-LOR-o-plas-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of the pyloric sphincter.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8890"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pylorospasm</b> (pi-LOR-o-spaz-im):</span> <span class="glossdef">Involuntary contraction of muscles at the pyloric sphincter.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8895"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pylorus</b> (pi-LOR-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Distal region of the stomach near the duodenum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8900"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pyoderma</b> (pi-o-DER-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Skin disease with formation of pus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8905"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pyorrhea</b> (pi-or-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Discharge of pus from the gums.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8910"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pyosalpinx</b> (pi-o-SAL-pinks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pus in a fallopian tube.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8915"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pyothorax</b> (pi-o-THO-rax):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pus collection in the pleural cavity; empyema.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8920"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pyrexia</b> (pi-REK-se-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fever.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8925"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pyromania</b> (pi-ro-MA-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Strong impulse (obsessive urge) to set objects on fire.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8930"><span class="glossterm"><b>Pyuria</b> (pi-U-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pus in urine; sign of urinary tract infection (UTI).</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0090"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0090">Q</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls8935"><span class="glossterm"><b>Quadriplegia</b> (kwod-rih-PLE-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Paralysis of all four limbs; both arms and both legs.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0095"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0095">R</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls8940"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radial</b> (RA-de-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the radius, a bone in the lower arm (thumb side of the wrist).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8945"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiation</b> (ra-de-A-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Energy carried by a stream of particles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8950"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiation fields</b> (ra-de-A-shun feeldz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Dimensions of the size of radiation area used to treat a tumor from a specific angle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls89570"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiation therapy</b> (ra-de-A-shun THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment using radiation, high-energy x-rays, or other radiation sources; also called radiotherapy or radiation oncology.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8955"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiculitis</b> (rah-dik-u-LI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of a spinal nerve root.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8960"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiculopathy</b> (rah-dik-u-LOP-ah-the):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disease of a spinal nerve root.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8965"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiocurable tumor</b> (ra-de-o-KYOOR-a-bl TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor cells that are destroyed with radiotherapy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8970"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiographer</b> (ra-de-OG-rah-fer):</span> <span class="glossdef">One who assists a radiologist in performing diagnostic x-ray procedures.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8975"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radioimmunoassay</b> (ra-de-o-ih-mew-no-AS-a):</span> <span class="glossdef">Test combines radioactive chemicals and antibodies to detect minute quantities of substances in a patient’s blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8980"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radioisotope</b> (ra-de-o-I-so-tope):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radioactive form of an element; radionuclide.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8985"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiolabeled compound</b> (ra-de-o-LA-beld KOM-pownd):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radiopharmaceutical; used in nuclear medicine studies.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8990"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiology</b> (ra-de-OL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study of x-ray and other energy sources in the diagnosis of disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls8995"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiolucent</b> (ra-de-o-LU-sent):</span> <span class="glossdef">Permitting the passage of x-rays.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9000"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radionuclide</b> (ra-de-o-NU-klide):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radioactive form of an element; gives off energy in the form of radiation; radioisotope.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9005"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radionuclide scans</b> (ra-de-o-NU-klide skanz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radioactive substances (radionuclides) are injected intravenously and scans (images) are taken of organs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9010"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiopaque</b> (rad-de-o-PAYK):</span> <span class="glossdef">Obstructing the passage of x-rays.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9015"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiopharmaceutical</b> (ra-de-o-far-mah-SU-tih-kal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radioactive drug (radionuclide plus a drug) that is administered safely for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9020"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radioresistant tumor</b> (ra-de-o-re-ZIS-tant TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor cells that require large doses of radiation to be destroyed.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9025"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiosensitive tumor</b> (ra-do-o-SEN-sih-tiv TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor in which radiation can cause death of cells without damage to surrounding tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9030"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiosensitizers</b> (ra-de-o-SEN-sih-ti-zerz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs that increase the sensitivity of tumor cells to x-rays.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="952" id="pagebreak_952"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9035"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radiotherapy</b> (ra-de-o-THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment using radiation, high-energy x-rays, or other radiation sources; also called radiation therapy or radiation oncology.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9040"><span class="glossterm"><b>Radius</b> (RA-de-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bone in the lower arm on the thumb side of the wrist.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9045"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rales</b> (raylz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal, fine crackling sounds heard on auscultation when there is fluid in the alveoli.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9050"><span class="glossterm"><b>Raynaud disease</b> (ra-NO dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Recurrent episodes of pallor and cyanosis in fingers and toes caused by blood vessel spasms.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9055"><span class="glossterm"><b>Reabsorption</b> (re-ab-SORP-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process in the kidney by which the renal tubules return materials necessary to the body back into the bloodstream.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9060"><span class="glossterm"><b>Reality testing</b> (re-AL-ih-te TEST-ing):</span> <span class="glossdef">Assessment of ability to perceive fact from fantasy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9065"><span class="glossterm"><b>Receptor</b> (re-SEP-tor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Organ that receives and transmits a stimulus to sensory nerves; examples are skin, ears, eyes, and taste buds. In pharmacology, a receptor is a target substance with which a drug interacts in the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9070"><span class="glossterm"><b>Recombinant DNA</b> (re-KOM-bin-ant DNA):</span> <span class="glossdef">Insertion of a gene (region of DNA) from one organism into the DNA of another.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9075"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rectal administration</b> (REK-tal ad-min-is-TRA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs are inserted through the anus into the rectum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9080"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rectal carcinoma</b> (REK-tal kar-sih-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cancer of the rectum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9085"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rectocele</b> (REK-to-seel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hernia of the rectum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9090"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rectum</b> (REK-tum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Last section of the large intestine (colon).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9095"><span class="glossterm"><b>Recumbent</b> (re-KUM-bent):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lying down (prone or supine).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9100"><span class="glossterm"><b>Red blood cell count</b> (red blood sel kownt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Number of erythrocytes per cubic millimeter or microliter of blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9105"><span class="glossterm"><b>Red blood cell morphology</b> (red blud sel mor-FOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Microscopic examination of a stained blood smear to determine the shape of individual red blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9110"><span class="glossterm"><b>Red bone marrow</b> (red bone MAH-row):</span> <span class="glossdef">Soft, spongy tissue found in the interior of flat bones such as the hip bone and breastbone; site of hematopoiesis (formation of blood cells).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9115"><span class="glossterm"><b>Reduction</b> (reh-DUK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Reconnection of a bone to its normal position after a fracture.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9120"><span class="glossterm"><b>Refraction</b> (re-FRAK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bending of light rays by the cornea, lens, and fluids of the eye to bring the rays into focus on the retina.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9125"><span class="glossterm"><b>Relapse</b> (RE-laps):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sliding or falling back, as in return of illness after apparent recovery.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9130"><span class="glossterm"><b>Remission</b> (re-MIH-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Return to good health; signs and symptoms of disease are gone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9135"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal</b> (RE-nal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9140"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal angiography</b> (RE-nal an-je-OG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray record of blood vessels of the kidney after injecting contrast material.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9145"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal angioplasty</b> (RE-nal AN-je-o-plas-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Dilation of narrowed areas in renal arteries.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9150"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal artery</b> (RE-nal AR-teh-re):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood vessel that carries blood to the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9155"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal calculi</b> (RE-nal KAL-ku-li):</span> <span class="glossdef">Kidney stones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9160"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal cell carcinoma</b> (RE-nal sel kar-sih-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of the kidney in an adult.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9165"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal colic</b> (RE-nal KOL-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Severe pain resulting from stones (calculi) in a ureter or in the kidney (renal pelvis).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9170"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal failure</b> (RE-nal FAYL-yur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Failure of the kidneys to produce and excrete urine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9175"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal hypertension</b> (RE-nal hi-per-TEN-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">High blood pressure resulting from kidney disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9180"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal ischemia</b> (RE-nal is-KE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition in which blood is held back from the kidney, often by blockage of renal arteries and arterioles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9185"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal pelvis</b> (RE-nal PEL-vis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Central collecting chamber of the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9190"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal transplantation</b> (RE-nal trans-plan-TA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical transfer of a kidney from a donor to a recipient.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9195"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal tubule</b> (RE-nal TU-bule):</span> <span class="glossdef">Microscopic tube in the kidney where urine is formed after filtration.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9200"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renal vein</b> (RE-nal vayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blood vessel that carries blood away from the kidney and back toward the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9205"><span class="glossterm"><b>Renin</b> (RE-nin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone synthesized, stored, and secreted by the kidney to raise blood pressure.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="953" id="pagebreak_953"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9210"><span class="glossterm"><b>Repression</b> (re-PREH-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Defense mechanism by which unacceptable thoughts, feelings, and impulses are automatically pushed into the unconscious.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9215"><span class="glossterm"><b>Resection</b> (re-SEK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal (excision) of an organ or part of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9220"><span class="glossterm"><b>Resistance</b> (re-SIS-tans):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lack of beneficial drug response.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9225"><span class="glossterm"><b>Respiration</b> (res-pih-RA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Exchange of gases (oxygen and carbon dioxide): at the lung capillaries (external respiration or breathing) and at the tissue capillaries (internal respiration).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9230"><span class="glossterm"><b>Respiratory drug</b> (res-pih-rah-TOR-e drug):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treats asthma, emphysema, and infections that affect breathing; bronchodilators are respiratory drugs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9235"><span class="glossterm"><b>Response</b> (re-SPONS):</span> <span class="glossdef">Desired and beneficial effect of a drug.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9240"><span class="glossterm"><b>Restrictive lung disease</b> (re-STRIK-tiv lung dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition in which lung expansion is limited by disease that affects the chest wall, pleura, or lung tissue itself. Examples are pulmonary fibrosis, radiation damage, and pneumoconiosis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9245"><span class="glossterm"><b>Reticulocyte</b> (reh-TIK-u-lo-site):</span> <span class="glossdef">Immature erythrocyte; a network (reticulum) of strands is seen after staining the cell with special dyes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9250"><span class="glossterm"><b>Retina</b> (RET-ih-nah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Light-sensitive nerve cell layer of the eye containing photoreceptor cells (rods and cones).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9255"><span class="glossterm"><b>Retinal detachment</b> (RET-ih-nal de-TACH-ment):</span> <span class="glossdef">Two layers of the retina separate from each other.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9260"><span class="glossterm"><b>Retinitis pigmentosa</b> (ret-ih-NI-tis pig-men-TO-sah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the retina with pigmentation and progressive scarring of tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9265"><span class="glossterm"><b>Retinoblastoma</b> (reh-tin-o-blas-TO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of the retina of the eye; childhood malignancy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9270"><span class="glossterm"><b>Retrocardiac</b> (ret-ro-KAR-de-ac):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to behind the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9275"><span class="glossterm"><b>Retroflexion</b> (re-tro-FLEK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bending backward.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9280"><span class="glossterm"><b>Retrograde pyelogram</b> (REH-tro-grade PI-el-o-gram):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray record of the kidney, ureters, and urinary bladder after injection of contrast material through a urinary catheter into the ureters.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9285"><span class="glossterm"><b>Retroperitoneal</b> (reh-tro-peh-rih-to-NE-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to behind the peritoneum (membrane surrounding the abdominal cavity).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9290"><span class="glossterm"><b>Retroversion</b> (re-tro-VER-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tipping backward of an organ or a part of the body, as in the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9295"><span class="glossterm"><b>Reverse transcriptase inhibitor</b> (re-VERS trans-SCRIPT-ayz in-hib-ih-tor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug used to treat AIDS by blocking an enzyme (reverse transcriptase) needed to make copies of HIV.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9300"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rh factor</b> (R-h FAK-tor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Antigen (protein) on red blood cells of Rh positive individuals.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9305"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rhabdomyolysis</b> (rab-do-mi-OL-ah-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Breakdown of damaged skeletal muscle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9310"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rhabdomyoma</b> (rab-do-mi-O-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Benign tumor of striated, voluntary muscle (attached to bones).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9315"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rhabdomyosarcoma</b> (rab-do-mi-o-sar-KO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of striated, voluntary muscle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9320"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rheumatic heart disease</b> (ru-MAT-ik hart dih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Heart disease caused by rheumatic fever.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9325"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rheumatoid arthritis</b> (RU-mat-oyd ar-THRI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic joint condition with inflammation and pain; caused by autoimmune reaction against joint tissues.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9330"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rheumatoid factor test</b> (RU-mat-oyd FAK-tor test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Serum (blood minus clotting proteins and cells) is tested for the presence of an antibody found in many patients with rheumatoid arthritis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9335"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rheumatologist</b> (ru-mat-OL-o-jist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Medical doctor specializing in diagnosis and treatment of joint disorders.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9340"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rhinitis</b> (ri-NI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the nose.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9345"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rhinoplasty</b> (RI-no-plas-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of the nose.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9350"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rhinorrhea</b> (ri-no-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Discharge of mucus from the nose.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9355"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rhonchi</b> (RONG-ki):</span> <span class="glossdef">Loud, rumbling sounds heard on auscultation of bronchi that are obstructed by sputum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9360"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rhytidectomy</b> (rih-tih-DEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Plastic surgery to remove wrinkles and other signs of aging.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9365"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ribonucleic acid</b> (ri-bo-nu-KLE-ik AS-id):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cellular substance that, along with DNA, plays a role in protein synthesis.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="954" id="pagebreak_954"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls93865"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ribosomes</b> (ri-bo-SOHMZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small granules on the endoplasmic reticulum of a cell. They arrange amino acids to make proteins.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9370"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ribs</b> (ribz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Twelve pairs of curved bones that form the chest wall.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9375"><span class="glossterm"><b>Right lymphatic duct</b> (rite limf-FAH-tik dukt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Receives lymph from the right side of the body and empties lymph into a vein in the neck.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9380"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rod</b> (rod):</span> <span class="glossdef">Photoreceptor cell of the retina essential for vision in low light and for peripheral vision.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9385"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rotation</b> (ro-TA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Circular movement around an axis (central point).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9390"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rubella</b> (ru-BEL-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Exanthemous viral disease; German measles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9395"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rubeola</b> (ru-be-O-lah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Exanthemous viral disease; measles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9400"><span class="glossterm"><b>Rugae</b> (RU-guy):</span> <span class="glossdef">Ridges on the hard palate and the wall of the stomach.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0100"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0100">S</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls9405"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sacral</b> (SA-kral):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the sacrum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9410"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sacral vertebrae</b> (SA-kral VER-teh-bray):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bones of the sacrum (lower back below the lumbar region).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9415"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sacrum</b> (SA-krum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Large triangular bone of the back (spine).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9420"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sagittal plane</b> (SAJ-ih-tal playn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lengthwise vertical plane dividing the body or structure into right and left sides; lateral plane.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9425"><span class="glossterm"><b>Saliva</b> (sah-LI-vah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Digestive juice produced by salivary glands.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9430"><span class="glossterm"><b>Salivary glands</b> (SAL-ih-var-e glandz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Three pairs of exocrine glands secreting saliva into the mouth; parotid glands, sublingual glands, and submandibular glands.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9435"><span class="glossterm"><b>Salpingectomy</b> (sal-pin-JEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of a fallopian tube.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9440"><span class="glossterm"><b>Salpingitis</b> (sal-pin-JI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of a fallopian tube.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9445"><span class="glossterm"><b>Salpingopharyngeal</b> (sal-ping-go-fah-RIN-ge-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the eustachian tube and the throat.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9450"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sarcoidosis</b> (sar-koy-DO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic inflammatory disease of unknown cause in which small nodules or tubercles develop in lungs, lymph nodes, and other organs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9455"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sarcoma</b> (sar-KO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor (malignant) of flesh tissue such as bone, muscle, fat, and cartilage.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9460"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sarcopenia</b> (sar-ko-PE-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Loss of muscle mass and strength; associated with aging.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9465"><span class="glossterm"><b>Scabies</b> (SKA-beez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Contagious, parasitic infection of the skin with intense pruritus (itching).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9470"><span class="glossterm"><b>Scan</b> (skan):</span> <span class="glossdef">Image of an area, organ, or tissue of the body obtained from ultrasound, radioactive tracer studies, or computed tomography.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9475"><span class="glossterm"><b>Scapula</b> (SKAP-u-lah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Shoulder blade.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9480"><span class="glossterm"><b>Scapular</b> (SKAP-u-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the shoulder blade.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9485"><span class="glossterm"><b>Schedule</b> (SKED-ule):</span> <span class="glossdef">The exact timing and frequency of drug administration.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9490"><span class="glossterm"><b>Schizoid personality</b> (SKIT-zoyd):</span> <span class="glossdef">Emotionally cold and aloof, as if split off from other people; indifferent to praise or criticism or to the feelings of others.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9495"><span class="glossterm"><b>Schizophrenia</b> (skit-zo-FREN-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Psychosis marked by withdrawal from reality into an inner world of disorganized thinking and conflict.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9500"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sciatic nerve</b> (si-AH-tik nerv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Extends from the base of the spine down the thigh, lower leg, and foot. Sciatica is pain along the course of the nerve.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9505"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sciatica</b> (si-AH-tih-kah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pain or inflammation along the course of the sciatic nerve.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9510"><span class="glossterm"><b>Scintigraphy</b> (SIN-tih-grah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Diagnostic nuclear medicine test using radiopharmaceuticals and gamma cameras to create images.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9515"><span class="glossterm"><b>Scirrhous</b> (SKIR-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to hard, densely packed tumors, overgrown with fibrous tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9520"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sclera</b> (SKLEH-rah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tough, white outer coat of the eyeball.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="955" id="pagebreak_955"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9525"><span class="glossterm"><b>Scleral buckle</b> (SKLEH-ral BUK-el):</span> <span class="glossdef">Suture of a silicone band to the sclera over a detached portion of the retina.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9530"><span class="glossterm"><b>Scleritis</b> (skleh-RI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the sclera.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9535"><span class="glossterm"><b>Scleroderma</b> (skleh-ro-DER-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic progressive disease of the skin and internal organs with hardening and shrinking of connective tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9540"><span class="glossterm"><b>Scoliosis</b> (sko-le-O-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of lateral (sideways) curvature of the spine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9545"><span class="glossterm"><b>Scotoma</b> (sko-TO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blind spot in the field of vision.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9550"><span class="glossterm"><b>Scrotum</b> (SKRO-tum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sac that contains the testes and associated organs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9555"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sebaceous gland</b> (se-BA-shus gland):</span> <span class="glossdef">Oil-secreting gland in the dermis; associated with hair follicles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9560"><span class="glossterm"><b>Seborrhea</b> (seb-o-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition marked by excessive secretion from sebaceous glands.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9565"><span class="glossterm"><b>Seborrheic dermatitis</b> (seb-o-RE-ik der-mah-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the skin with excessive secretion from sebaceous glands.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9570"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sebum</b> (SE-bum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Oily substance secreted by sebaceous glands in the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9575"><span class="glossterm"><b>Secondary hypertension</b> (SEK-on-dair-e hi-per-TEN-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">High blood pressure caused by kidney disease or other disorders.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9580"><span class="glossterm"><b>Secondary tumors</b> (SEK-on-dair-e TU-morz):</span> <span class="glossdef">New types of tumors, originating at a site separate from the primary tumor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9585"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sedative</b> (SED-ah-tiv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that induces calmness, promotes sleep, and helps lessen anxiety.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9590"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sella turcica</b> (SEL-ah TUR-sik-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cavity in the sphenoid bone at the base of the skull where the pituitary gland is located.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9595"><span class="glossterm"><b>Semen</b> (SE-men):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fluid discharged at ejaculation; consisting of sperm cells and secretions from the prostate gland, seminal vesicles, and bulbourethral glands.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9600"><span class="glossterm"><b>Semen analysis</b> (SE-men ah-NAL-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Microscopic examination of ejaculated fluid.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9605"><span class="glossterm"><b>Semicircular canals</b> (seh-me-SER-ku-lar kah-NALZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Passages in the inner ear associated with maintaining equilibrium.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9610"><span class="glossterm"><b>Seminal vesicles</b> (SEH-min-al VES-ik-ils):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pair of male exocrine glands lying behind the urinary bladder and opening into the vas deferens.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9615"><span class="glossterm"><b>Seminiferous tubules</b> (seh-mih-NIF-er-us TOOB-ulez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Narrow, coiled tubules that produce sperm in the testes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9620"><span class="glossterm"><b>Seminoma</b> (seh-mih-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of a testis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9625"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sensory nerve</b> (SEN-sor-e nerv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Carries messages to the brain and spinal cord from a receptor; afferent nerve.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9630"><span class="glossterm"><b>Septal defects</b> (SEP-tal DE-fekts):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small holes, present at birth, in the walls between the heart chambers.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9635"><span class="glossterm"><b>Septum; <i>pl.</i> septa</b> (SEP-tum; SEP-ta):</span> <span class="glossdef">Wall or partition. The interatrial septum lies between the atria of the heart, and the interventricular septum is between the ventricles of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9640"><span class="glossterm"><b>Serous</b> (SER-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a clear fluid (serum) that remains after blood has clotted. Serous tumors are cystic tumors filled with a thin, watery fluid, resembling serum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9645"><span class="glossterm"><b>Serum</b> (SER-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Plasma minus clotting proteins (prothrombin and fibrinogen) and clotting cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9650"><span class="glossterm"><b>Serum calcium</b> (SER-um KAL-se-umtest):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurement of calcium level in serum (blood minus clotting proteins and cells).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9655"><span class="glossterm"><b>Serum creatine kinase</b> (SER-um KRE-ah-tine KI-nays):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurement of the enzyme creatine kinase in serum; increased levels occur in muscular dystrophy, polymyositis, rhabdomyolysis, and traumatic injuries.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9660"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sessile</b> (SEH-sile):</span> <span class="glossdef">Type of polyp that extends from a broad base as opposed to growing on a stalk.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9665"><span class="glossterm"><b>Severe combined immunodeficiency disease</b> (seh-VEER kom-BINED ih-mu-no-deh-FIH-shen-sedih-ZEEZ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition present at birth marked by a deficiency of B cells and T cells, resulting in a lack of immunity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9670"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sex hormones</b> (sex HOR-mones):</span> <span class="glossdef">Steroids (androgens and estrogens) produced by the adrenal cortex to influence male and female sexual characteristics.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9675"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sexual dysfunctions</b> (SEX-u-al dis-FUNK-shunz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Disturbances in a person’s ability to respond sexually or to experience sexual pleasure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9680"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sexual masochism disorder</b> (SEX-u-al mas-o-KIH-zum dis-OR-der):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sexual gratification gained by humiliation, bondage, or suffering.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9685"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sexual sadism disorder</b> (SEX-u-al SA-dizm dis-OR-der):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sexual gratification gained by inflicting physical or psychologic pain or harm on others.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="956" id="pagebreak_956"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9690"><span class="glossterm"><b>Shingles</b> (SHING-ulz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Viral (herpes zoster) illness that affects peripheral nerves; produces blisters and pain on the skin overlying the path of peripheral nerves.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9695"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sialadenectomy</b> (si-al-ah-deh-NEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal (excision) of a salivary gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9700"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sialadenitis</b> (si-al-ah-deh-NI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of a salivary gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9705"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sialolith</b> (si-AL-o-lith):</span> <span class="glossdef">Salivary gland stone; lodged in a salivary gland or duct.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9710"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sickle cell anemia</b> (SIK-el sel ah-NE-me-uh):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hereditary disorder of abnormal hemoglobin, producing sickle-shaped erythrocytes and hemolysis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9715"><span class="glossterm"><b>Side effect</b> (side eh-FEKT):</span> <span class="glossdef">Adverse reaction that results from the use of a drug.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9720"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sideropenia</b> (si-der-o-PE-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficiency of iron in the blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9725"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sigmoid colon</b> (SIG-moyd KO-lon):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lower, s-shaped segment of the colon, just before the rectum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9730"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sigmoidoscopy</b> (sig-moyd-OS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Visual endoscopic examination of the sigmoid colon.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls97390"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sign</b> (SINE):</span> <span class="glossdef">Objective finding indicating the presence of disease as perceived by an examiner.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9735"><span class="glossterm"><b>Silicosis</b> (sil-ih-KO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Silica glass dust collects in the lungs; a type of pneumoconiosis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9740"><span class="glossterm"><b>Simulation</b> (sim-u-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Study prior to radiation therapy, using CT scan or MRI to map treatment. It is required for all patients undergoing radiation therapy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9745"><span class="glossterm"><b>Single photon emission computed tomography</b> (SING-il FO-ton e-MIH-shun com-PU-ted to-MOG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radioactive tracer is injected intravenously, and a computer reconstructs a three-dimensional image based on a composite of many views; SPECT.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9750"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sinoatrial node</b> (si-no-A-tre-al node):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sensitive nervous tissue in the wall of the right atrium of the heart; pacemaker.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9755"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sinus</b> (SI-nus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hollow air cavity within a bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9760"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sinusitis</b> (si-nu-SI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of paranasal sinuses.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9765"><span class="glossterm"><b>Skin biopsy</b> (skin BI-op-se):</span> <span class="glossdef">Suspicious skin lesions are removed or sampled and examined microscopically by a pathologist.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9770"><span class="glossterm"><b>Skin test</b> (skin test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Substances are injected intradermally or applied to the skin, and results are observed.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls97970"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sleep apnea</b> (sleep AP-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Occurs when breathing suddenly stops during sleep; obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is the most common form.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9775"><span class="glossterm"><b>Slit lamp microscopy</b> (slit lamp mi-KROS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Examination of anterior ocular (eye) structures under microscopic magnification.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9780"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sodium</b> (SO-de-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chemical element (Na) necessary for cellular functioning. As an electrolyte (NA+), its blood and urine levels are regulated by the kidney.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9785"><span class="glossterm"><b>Solid tumor</b> (SOL-id TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor composed of a mass of cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9790"><span class="glossterm"><b>Somatic symptom disorders</b> (so-MAT-ik SIM-tom dis-OR-derz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Presence of physical symptoms that cannot be explained by an actual physical disorder or mental disorder such as depression.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9795"><span class="glossterm"><b>Somatotropin</b> (so-mah-to-TRO-pin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland; growth hormone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9800"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sonogram</b> (SON-o-gram):</span> <span class="glossdef">Image of sound waves as they bounce off organs in the body; echogram or ultrasound image.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9805"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spermatogenesis</b> (sper-mah-to-JEN-eh-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Formation of sperm cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9810"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spermatozoon, <i>pl.</i> spermatozoa</b> (sper-mah-to-ZO-en; sper-mah-to-ZO-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Single sperm cell.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9815"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spermolytic</b> (sper-mo-LIH-tik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to destruction of sperm.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9820"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sphenoid bone</b> (SFEH-noyd bone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bat-shaped bone that forms part of the base of the skull.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9825"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spherocytosis</b> (sfer-o-si-TO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Increase in numbers of sphere-shaped red blood cells, as in a type of anemia (hemolytic anemia).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9830"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sphincter</b> (SFINK-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Circular ring of muscle that constricts a passage or closes a natural opening.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9835"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sphygmomanometer</b> (sfig-mo-mah-NOM-eh-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Instrument to measure blood pressure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9840"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spina bifida</b> (SPI-na BIF-ih-dah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Congenital defect in the lumbar spinal column caused by imperfect union of vertebral parts; spinal cord and meninges may herniate through the vertebral gap.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="957" id="pagebreak_957"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9845"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spinal cavity</b> (SPI-nal KAV-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Space within the spinal column (backbones) containing the spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9850"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spinal column</b> (SPI-nal KOL-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bone tissue surrounding the spinal cavity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9855"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spinal cord</b> (SPI-nal kord):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nervous tissue within the spinal cavity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9860"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spinal nerves</b> (SPI-nal nervz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pairs of nerves, arising one on each side of the spinal column. They transmit messages to and from the spinal cord.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9865"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spinal stenosis</b> (SPI-nal steh-NO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Narrowing of the neural (spinal) canal in the lumbar spine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9870"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spirometer</b> (spi-ROM-eh-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">Instrument that measures breathing.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9875"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spleen</b> (spleen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Organ in the left upper quadrant of the abdomen that destroys worn-out red blood cells, activates lymphocytes, and stores blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9880"><span class="glossterm"><b>Splenectomy</b> (spleh-NEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of the spleen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9885"><span class="glossterm"><b>Splenic flexure</b> (SPLEN-ik FLEK-shur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Normal downward bend of the colon on the left side of the body toward the descending colon.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9890"><span class="glossterm"><b>Splenomegaly</b> (spleh-no-MEG-ah-le):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enlargement of the spleen.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9895"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spondylolisthesis</b> (spon-dih-lo-lis-THE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Forward slipping (subluxation) of one vertebra over another.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9900"><span class="glossterm"><b>Spondylosis</b> (spon-dih-LO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of the spine (vertebral column) characterized by stiffness and fixation of vertebral joints.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9905"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sprain</b> (sprayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Injury, often the result of trauma, involving overstretching of ligaments around a joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9910"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sputum</b> (SPU-tum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Material expelled from the chest by coughing or by clearing the throat; phlegm.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9915"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sputum culture</b> (SPU-tum KUL-chur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sputum is collected and placed in a growth medium to analyze the type of microorganisms that may be present.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9920"><span class="glossterm"><b>Squamous cell carcinoma</b> (SKWA-mus sel kar-sih-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of the squamous epithelial cells in the epidermis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9925"><span class="glossterm"><b>Squamous epithelium</b> (SKWA-mus ep-ih-THE-le-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Flat, scale-like cells composing the epidermis (outer layer of the skin).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9930"><span class="glossterm"><b>Staging of tumors</b> (STA-jing of TU-morz):</span> <span class="glossdef">System of evaluating the extent of spread of tumors.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9935"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stapedectomy</b> (sta-peh-DEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of the stapes (third middle ear bone).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9940"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stapes</b> (STA-peez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small, stirrup-shaped bone in the middle ear; third ossicle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9945"><span class="glossterm"><b>Staphylococci</b> (staf-il-o-KOK-si):</span> <span class="glossdef">Berry- or spherical-shaped bacteria arranged in clusters.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9950"><span class="glossterm"><b>Statins</b> (STAT-inz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs given to lower cholesterol in the bloodstream.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9955"><span class="glossterm"><b>Steatorrhea</b> (ste-ah-to-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Discharge of fat in the feces due to improper digestion and malabsorption of fat.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9960"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stem cell</b> (STEMsel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Unspecialized cell that gives rise to mature, specialized forms. A hematopoietic stem cell is the progenitor for all different types of blood cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9965"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stem cell transplantation</b> (stem sel tranzplan-TA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Stem cells (immature blood cells) are harvested from the bloodstream of a patient and then reinfused after the patient has received chemotherapy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9970"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stereotactic radiosurgery</b> (steh-re-o-TAK-tik ra-de-o-SUR-jer-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Single large dose of radiation delivered under stereotactic (highly precise) guidance to destroy a vascular abnormality or treat small brain tumors. Examples are Cyber Knife system and GammaKnife.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9975"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sterilization</b> (ster-ih-lih-ZA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Procedure that removes an individual’s ability to produce or release reproductive cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9980"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sternum</b> (STER-num):</span> <span class="glossdef">Breastbone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9985"><span class="glossterm"><b>Steroid</b> (STEH-royd):</span> <span class="glossdef">Complex, naturally occurring chemical, such as a hormone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9990"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stethoscope</b> (STETH-o-skope):</span> <span class="glossdef">Instrument for listening to sounds in the chest.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls9995"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stimulant</b> (STIM-u-lant):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that excites and promotes activity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10000"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stimulus</b> (STIM-u-lus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Agent of change (light, sound, and touch) that evokes a response.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10005"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stomach</b> (STUM-ak):</span> <span class="glossdef">Muscular organ that receives food from the esophagus; composed of three main parts: fundus (upper portion), body (middle section), and antrum (lower portion).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10010"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stomatitis</b> (sto-mah-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the mouth.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="958" id="pagebreak_958"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10015"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stool culture</b> (stool KUL-chur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Test for microorganisms, such as bacteria, in feces.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10020"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stool guaiac</b> (stool GWI-ak):</span> <span class="glossdef">Test for detection of occult (hidden) blood in feces.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10025"><span class="glossterm"><b>Strabismus</b> (strah-BIZ-mus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal deviation of the eye; esotropia or exotropia are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10030"><span class="glossterm"><b>Strain</b> (strayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Muscle injury involving overstretching of muscle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10035"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stratified</b> (STRAH-tih-fide):</span> <span class="glossdef">Arranged in layers.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10040"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stratum corneum</b> (STRAH-tum KOR-ne-um):</span> <span class="glossdef">Outermost layer of the epidermis, consisting of flattened, keratinized cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10045"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stratum; <i>pl.</i> strata</b> (STRAH-tum; STRAH-tah):</span> <span class="glossdef">A layer (of cells).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10050"><span class="glossterm"><b>Streptococcus; <i>pl.</i> streptococci</b> (strep-to-KOK-sis; strep-to-KOK-si):</span> <span class="glossdef">Berry- or spherical-shaped bacterium in a twisted chain formation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10055"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stress test</b> (STRESS test):</span> <span class="glossdef">An exercise tolerance test (ETT) used to determine the heart’s response to physical exertion.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10060"><span class="glossterm"><b>Striated muscle</b> (STRI-a-ted MUS-el):</span> <span class="glossdef">Muscle attached to bones; composed of bands of fibers that make the muscle look striped or (striated). Also called voluntary or skeletal muscle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10065"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stricture</b> (STRIK-shur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Narrowing of a tubular structure in the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10070"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stridor</b> (STRI-dor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Strained, high-pitched sound heard on inspiration caused by obstruction in the pharynx or larynx.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls100740"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stroboscopy</b> (stro-BOS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Examination of vibrating vocal cords as the patient is producing sound.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10075"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stroma</b> (STRO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Connective and supportive tissue of an organ.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10080"><span class="glossterm"><b>Stromal tissue</b> (STRO-mal TIH-shu):</span> <span class="glossdef">Supportive, connective tissue of an organ.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10085"><span class="glossterm"><b>Styloid process</b> (STI-loyd PROS-es):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pole-like process extending downward from the temporal bone on each side of the skull.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10090"><span class="glossterm"><b>Subcostal</b> (sub-KOS-tal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to under the ribs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10095"><span class="glossterm"><b>Subcutaneous</b> (sub-ku-TA-ne-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to under the skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10100"><span class="glossterm"><b>Subcutaneous layer</b> (sub-ku-TA-ne-us LA-er):</span> <span class="glossdef">Innermost layer of the skin, containing fat tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10105"><span class="glossterm"><b>Subdural hematoma</b> (sub-DU-ral he-mah-TO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collection of blood in the space below the dura mater surrounding the brain.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10110"><span class="glossterm"><b>Subhepatic</b> (sub-heh-PAT-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to below the liver.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10115"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sublingual</b> (sub-LING-wal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to under the tongue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10120"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sublingual administration</b> (sub-LING-wal ad-min-is-TRA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs are given by placement under the tongue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10125"><span class="glossterm"><b>Subluxation</b> (sub-luk-SA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Partial or incomplete dislocation of a bone from its normal position; often a misalignment of vertebrae.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10130"><span class="glossterm"><b>Submandibular</b> (sub-man-DIB-u-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to under the lower jaw (mandible).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10135"><span class="glossterm"><b>Substance-related and addictive disorders</b> (SUB-stans re-LA-ted and ah-DIK-tiv dis-OR-derz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Group of disorders marked by regular overuse of or dependence on psychoactive substances that affect the central nervous system.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10140"><span class="glossterm"><b>Subungual</b> (sub-UNG-wal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to under a nail.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10145"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sulcus; <i>pl.</i> sulci</b> (SUL-kus; SUL-si):</span> <span class="glossdef">Depression or groove in the surface of the cerebral cortex; fissure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10150"><span class="glossterm"><b>Superego</b> (su-per-E-go):</span> <span class="glossdef">Internalized conscience and moral aspect of the personality.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10155"><span class="glossterm"><b>Superficial</b> (su-per-FIH-shul):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to on the surface of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10160"><span class="glossterm"><b>Superior</b> (su-PE-re-ur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Above another structure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10165"><span class="glossterm"><b>Supination</b> (su-pih-NA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">As applied to the hand and forearm, the act of turning the palm upward.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10170"><span class="glossterm"><b>Supine</b> (su-PINE):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lying on the back (face up, palms up).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10175"><span class="glossterm"><b>Supportive psychotherapy</b> (suh-POR-tiv si-ko-THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment that involves offering encouragement and hope to patients facing difficult life transitions and events.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10180"><span class="glossterm"><b>Suppressor T cell</b> (suh-PRE-sor T sel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lymphocyte that inhibits the activity of B- and T-cell lymphocytes. Also called a Treg (regulatory T cell).</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="959" id="pagebreak_959"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10185"><span class="glossterm"><b>Supraclavicular</b> (soo-prah-klah-VIK-u-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to above the clavicle (collarbone).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10190"><span class="glossterm"><b>Suprapubic</b> (su-prah-PU-bik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to above the pubic bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10195"><span class="glossterm"><b>Suture</b> (SU-chur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Immovable joint between bones, such as between the bones of the skull (cranium).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10200"><span class="glossterm"><b>Suture joint</b> (SU-chur joint):</span> <span class="glossdef">Immovable joint, such as between the bones of the skull.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10205"><span class="glossterm"><b>Symbiosis</b> (sim-be-O-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Close interaction between two organisms living in close association.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10210"><span class="glossterm"><b>Symmetry</b> (SIM-met-re):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurement together; similarity of parts, as in mirror images of each other.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10215"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sympathetic nerves</b> (sim-pah-THET-ik nervz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Autonomic nerves that activate responses in times of stress; heartbeat, respiration, and blood pressure are affected.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10220"><span class="glossterm"><b>Sympathomimetic</b> (sim-pah-tho-mih-MET-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to mimicking or copying the effect of the sympathetic nervous system; adrenaline and norepinephrine are sympathomimetic hormones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10225"><span class="glossterm"><b>Symphysis</b> (SIM-fih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bones that grow together separated by a piece of fibrocartilage. The pubic symphysis of the pelvis is an example.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10230"><span class="glossterm"><b>Symptom</b> (SIMP-tum):</span> <span class="glossdef">Subjective change in a condition as perceived by the patient.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10235"><span class="glossterm"><b>Synapse</b> (SIN-aps):</span> <span class="glossdef">Space through which a nervous impulse travels between nerve cells or between nerve and muscle or glandular cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10240"><span class="glossterm"><b>Syncopal</b> (SIN-ko-pal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to syncope (fainting).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10245"><span class="glossterm"><b>Syncope</b> (SIN-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fainting; temporary loss of consciousness.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10250"><span class="glossterm"><b>Syndactyly</b> (sin-DAK-til-e):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fusion of fingers or toes; congenital anomaly.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10255"><span class="glossterm"><b>Syndrome</b> (SIN-drohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Signs and symptoms that occur together indicating a particular condition or disorder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10260"><span class="glossterm"><b>Syndrome of inappropriate ADH</b> (SIN-drohm of in-ah-PRO-pre-it ADH):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive secretion of antidiuretic hormone (ADH, vasopressin), leading to water retention.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10265"><span class="glossterm"><b>Synergism</b> (SIN-er-jizm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug action in which the combination of two drugs causes an effect that is greater than the sum of the individual effects of each drug.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10270"><span class="glossterm"><b>Synergistic</b> (sin-er-JIS-tik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to synergism.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10275"><span class="glossterm"><b>Synovial cavity</b> (sih-NO-ve-al KAV-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Space between bones at a synovial joint; contains synovial fluid produced by the synovial membrane.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10280"><span class="glossterm"><b>Synovial fluid</b> (sih-NO-ve-al FLU-id):</span> <span class="glossdef">Viscous (sticky) fluid within the synovial cavity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10285"><span class="glossterm"><b>Synovial joint</b> (sih-NO-ve-al joynt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Freely movable joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10290"><span class="glossterm"><b>Synovial membrane</b> (si-NO-ve-al MEM-brayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tissue lining the synovial cavity; it produces synovial fluid.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10295"><span class="glossterm"><b>Synovitis</b> (sin-o-VI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the synovial membrane lining the synovial joint.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10300"><span class="glossterm"><b>Synthesis</b> (SIN-theh-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Putting together of simple substances to create something new and often more complex.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10305"><span class="glossterm"><b>Syphilis</b> (SIF-ih-lis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sexually transmitted infection caused by bacteria (spirochetes). A chancre (ulcer) on the genitalia is a characteristic lesion.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10310"><span class="glossterm"><b>Syringe</b> (sih-RINJ):</span> <span class="glossdef">Instrument for introducing or withdrawing fluids from the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10315"><span class="glossterm"><b>Systemic circulation</b> (sis-TEM-ik ser-ku-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Flow of blood from body tissues to the heart and from the heart back to the tissues.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10320"><span class="glossterm"><b>Systemic lupus erythematosus</b> (sis-TEM-ik LU-pus eh-rith-eh-mah-TO-sus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease of collagen in skin, joints, and internal organs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10325"><span class="glossterm"><b>Systole</b> (SIS-to-le):</span> <span class="glossdef">Contraction phase of the heartbeat.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0105"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0105">T</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls10330"><span class="glossterm"><b>T cell</b> (T sel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lymphocyte that acts directly on antigens to destroy them or produce chemicals (cytokines) such as interferons and interleukins that are toxic to antigens.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10335"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tachycardia</b> (tah-ke-KAR-de-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rapid heartbeat.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10340"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tachypnea</b> (tah-KIP-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormally rapid breathing.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="960" id="pagebreak_960"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10345"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tagging</b> (TAG-ing):</span> <span class="glossdef">Attaching a radionuclide to a chemical and following its path in the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10350"><span class="glossterm"><b>Talipes</b> (TAL-ih-peez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Congenital abnormality of the hindfoot (involving the talus); clubfoot.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10355"><span class="glossterm"><b>Target tissue</b> (TAR-get TIH-shu):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cells of an organ that are affected or stimulated by specific hormones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10360"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tarsals</b> (TAR-salz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hindfoot and midfoot bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10365"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tarsectomy</b> (tar-SEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of an anklebone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10370"><span class="glossterm"><b>Technetium Tc99m sestamibi scan</b> (tek-NE-she-umTC99mses-tah-MIH-beskan):</span> <span class="glossdef">Technetium Tc99m sestamibi injected intravenously is taken up in cardiac tissue, where it is detected by scanning.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10375"><span class="glossterm"><b>Telemetry</b> (tel-EM-et-re):</span> <span class="glossdef">Continuous monitoring of a patient’s heart rhythm in a hospital.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10380"><span class="glossterm"><b>Teletherapy</b> (tel-e-THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radiation delivered to a tumor from a distant source, such as a linear accelerator or cyclotron.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10385"><span class="glossterm"><b>Temporal bone</b> (TEM-por-al bone):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of two bones on each side of the skull near the ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10390"><span class="glossterm"><b>Temporomandibular joint</b> (tem-por-o-man-DIB-u-lar joynt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Connection on either side of the head between the temporal bone of the skull and mandibular bone of the jaw.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10395"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tendinosis</b> (ten-dih-NO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of tendons.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10400"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tendon</b> (TEN-dun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fibrous, connective tissue binding muscles to bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10405"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tenorrhaphy</b> (ten-OR-ah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Suture of a tendon.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10410"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tenosynovitis</b> (ten-o-sih-no-VI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of a tendon and its sheath or covering.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10415"><span class="glossterm"><b>Teratoma</b> (ter-ah-TO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of a testis or ovary; composed of embryonic cells that develop into different types of tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10420"><span class="glossterm"><b>Testes</b> (TES-teez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Two glands enclosed in the scrotal sac of a male; responsible for sperm production and testosterone secretion.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10425"><span class="glossterm"><b>Testicular</b> (tes-TIK-u-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a testis or testicle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10430"><span class="glossterm"><b>Testicular cancer</b> (tes-TIK-u-lar KAN-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of the testicles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10435"><span class="glossterm"><b>Testicular torsion</b> (tes-TIK-u-lar TOR-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Twisting of the spermatic cord and blood vessels of the testes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10440"><span class="glossterm"><b>Testis</b> (TES-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Male gonad that produces sperm and the hormone testosterone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10445"><span class="glossterm"><b>Testosterone</b> (tes-TOS-teh-rone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Male hormone secreted by the testes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10450"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tetany</b> (TET-ah-ne):</span> <span class="glossdef">Constant muscle contractions; associated with hypocalcemia and hypoparathyroidism.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10455"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tetraiodothyronine</b> (tet-rah-i-o-do-THI-ro-neen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the thyroid gland that increases body metabolism; thyroxine (T4).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10460"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tetralogy of Fallot</b> (teh-TRAH-lo-je of fah-LO):</span> <span class="glossdef">Four separate defects of the heart occurring at birth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10465"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thalamic</b> (THAL-ah-mik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the thalamus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10475"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thalamus</b> (THAL-ah-mus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Main relay center of the brain. Optic nerve fibers pass through the thalamus on their way to the cerebral cortex.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10480"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thalassemia</b> (thal-ah-SE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inherited defect in the ability to produce hemoglobin, usually seen in persons of Mediterranean background.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10485"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thallium scan</b> (THAL-e-um skan):</span> <span class="glossdef">Thallium 201 is injected intravenously to allow for myocardial perfusion and assess damage to heart muscle from heart attacks.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10490"><span class="glossterm"><b>Therapeutic</b> (ther-ah-PU-tik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to treatment or therapy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10495"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thoracentesis</b> (thor-ah-sen-TE-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical puncture to remove fluid from the chest.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10500"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thoracic</b> (thor-AH-sik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the chest.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10505"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thoracic cavity</b> (thor-AH-sik KAV-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Space in the chest containing the heart, lungs, bronchial tubes, trachea, esophagus, and other organs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10510"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thoracic duct</b> (thor-AH-sikdukt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Large lymphatic vessel in the upper chest.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10515"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thoracic vertebrae</b> (thor-AH-sik VER-teh-bray):</span> <span class="glossdef">Twelve backbones in the region of the chest.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10520"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thoracoscopy</b> (thor-ah-KOS-ko-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Visual examination of the chest using small incision and an endoscope.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="961" id="pagebreak_961"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10525"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thoracotomy</b> (thor-ah-KOT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of the chest.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10530"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thrill</b> (thril):</span> <span class="glossdef">Vibration felt over an area of turmoil in blood flow (as a blocked artery).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10535"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thrombin</b> (THROM-bin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enzyme that converts fibrinogen to fibrin during coagulation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10540"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thrombocyte</b> (THROM-bo-site):</span> <span class="glossdef">Clotting cell; platelet.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10545"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thrombocytopenia</b> (throm-bo-si-to-PE-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Deficiency of clotting cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10550"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thrombolysis</b> (throm-BOL-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Destruction of a clot.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10555"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thrombolytic therapy</b> (throm-bo-LIH-tik THER-ah-pe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Treatment with drugs to break down clots that may abnormally form in blood vessels.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10560"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thrombophlebitis</b> (throm-bo-fleh-BI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of a vein associated with formation of a thrombus or clot.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10565"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thrombosis</b> (throm-BO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal condition of clot formation in a blood vessel.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10570"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thrombotic occlusion</b> (throm-BOT-ik ok-LU-zhen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Blockage of a blood vessel caused by thrombosis or clot formation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10575"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thrombus</b> (THROM-bus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Abnormal clot formation in a blood vessel; a blood clot.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10580"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thymectomy</b> (thi-MEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of the thymus gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10585"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thymoma</b> (thi-MO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor of the thymus gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10590"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thymus gland</b> (THI-mus gland):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lymphoid organ in the mediastinum that produces T-cell lymphocytes and aids in the immune response.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10595"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thyroid carcinoma</b> (THI-royd kar-sih-NO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant tumor of the thyroid gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10600"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thyroid function tests</b> (THI-royd FUNK-shun tests):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurement of thyroxine, triiodothyronine, and thyroid-stimulating hormone in the bloodstream.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10605"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thyroid gland</b> (THI-royd gland):</span> <span class="glossdef">Endocrine gland that surrounds the trachea in the neck; secretes the hormone thyroxine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10610"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thyroid hormone</b> (THI-royd HOR-mone):</span> <span class="glossdef">Secretion from the thyroid gland that stimulates cellular metabolism.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10615"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thyroid scan</b> (THI-royd skan):</span> <span class="glossdef">Administration of a radioactive compound and visualization of the thyroid gland with a scanning device.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10620"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thyroiditis</b> (thi-royd-I-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the thyroid gland.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10625"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thyrotoxicosis</b> (thi-ro-tok-sih-KO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hyperthyroidism (overactivity of the thyroid gland).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10630"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thyrotropin</b> (thi-ro-TRO-pin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland; stimulates the thyroid gland to secrete its hormones. Also called thyroid-stimulating hormone or TSH.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10635"><span class="glossterm"><b>Thyroxine</b> (thi-ROK-sin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the thyroid gland to increase body metabolism; T4.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10640"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tibia</b> (TIB-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Larger of the two lower leg bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10645"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tibial</b> (TIB-e-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the larger of the two lower leg bones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10650"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tic</b> (TIK):</span> <span class="glossdef">Involuntary movement of a small group of muscles.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10655"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tinea</b> (TIN-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Infection of the skin caused by a fungus; tinea corporis (ringworm) and tinea pedis (athlete’s foot) are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10660"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tinnitus</b> (TIN-nih-tus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sensation of noises (ringing, buzzing, whistling, booming) in the ears without an external source.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10665"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tolerance</b> (TOL-er-antz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Ability of T lymphocytes to recognize and accept the body’s own antigens as “self” or friendly. Once tolerance is established, the immune system will not react against the body’s own cells. Also in pharmacology tolerance is a drug action in which larger and larger doses must be given to achieve a desired effect.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10670"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tonic-clonic seizure</b> (TON-ik-KLON-ik SE-zhur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Major seizure affecting the brain in epilepsy; grand mal seizure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10675"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tonometry</b> (to-NOM-eh-tre):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurement of tension and pressure within the eye; glaucoma test.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10680"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tonsillar</b> (TON-sih-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the tonsils.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10685"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tonsillectomy</b> (ton-sih-LEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of tonsils.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10690"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tonsillitis</b> (ton-sih-LI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of tonsils.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10695"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tonsils</b> (TON-silz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Masses of lymphatic tissue in the back of the oropharynx.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="962" id="pagebreak_962"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10700"><span class="glossterm"><b>Topical application</b> (TOP-ik-el ap-lih-KA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drugs are applied locally on the skin or mucous membranes of the body; ointments, lotions, and creams are examples.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10705"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tourette syndrome</b> (tur-ET SIN-drohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Involuntary, spasmodic movements; uncontrollable vocal sounds; and inappropriate words.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10710"><span class="glossterm"><b>Toxic</b> (TOK-sik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a toxin (a poisonous or harmful substance).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10715"><span class="glossterm"><b>Toxicity</b> (tok-SIS-ih-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Harmful effect of a drug.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10720"><span class="glossterm"><b>Toxicology</b> (tok-sih-KOL-o-je):</span> <span class="glossdef">Branch of pharmacology that studies harmful chemicals and their effects on the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10725"><span class="glossterm"><b>Toxin</b> (TOK-sin):</span> <span class="glossdef">Poison or harmful substance.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10730"><span class="glossterm"><b>Trabeculae</b> (trah-BEK-u-le):</span> <span class="glossdef">Supporting latticework of bony fibers in cancellous, spongy (soft) bone.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10735"><span class="glossterm"><b>Trabeculoplasty</b> (trah-bek-u-lo-PLAS-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Procedure using a laser beam to reduce intraocular pressure in patients with glaucoma.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10740"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tracer studies</b> (TRA-ser STUD-eez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Radionuclides are attached to chemicals, used as tags or markers, and followed as they travel through the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10745"><span class="glossterm"><b>Trachea</b> (TRA-ke-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Windpipe; tube leading from the pharynx (throat) and larynx (voice box) to the bronchial tubes.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10750"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tracheal</b> (TRA-ke-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the trachea.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10755"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tracheal stenosis</b> (TRA-ke-al steh-NO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Narrowing of the trachea.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10760"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tracheostomy</b> (tra-ke-OS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">New opening of the trachea to the outside of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10765"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tracheotomy</b> (tra-ke-OT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of the trachea.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10770"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tranquilizer</b> (TRAN-kwil-i-zer):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that controls anxiety and severe disturbances of behavior.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls15970"><span class="glossterm"><b>Transcranial magnetic stimulation</b> (tranz-KRA-ne-al mag-NET-ik stim-u-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Noninvasive procedure using magnetic fields to activate nerve cells in the brain in treatment of depression.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10775"><span class="glossterm"><b>Transcatheter aortic valve replacement</b> (tranz-KATH-eh-ter a-OR-tik valv re-PLAYS-ment):</span> <span class="glossdef">Placement of a balloon-expandable aortic heart valve into the body via a catheter; TAVR.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10780"><span class="glossterm"><b>Transference</b> (trans-FUR-enz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process by which a patient relates to a therapist as though the therapist were a prominent childhood figure.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10785"><span class="glossterm"><b>Transfusion</b> (tranz-FU-zhun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Transfer of blood from one person to another.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10790"><span class="glossterm"><b>Transhepatic</b> (tranz-heh-PAT-ik):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to through or across the liver.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10795"><span class="glossterm"><b>Transient ischemic attack</b> (TRAN-ze-ent is-KE-mik ah-TAK):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fleeting episode of ischemia (holding back blood) in the brain; TIA.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10800"><span class="glossterm"><b>Transport</b> (TRANS-port):</span> <span class="glossdef">Movement of a drug across a cell membrane into body cells.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10805"><span class="glossterm"><b>Transurethral</b> (tranz-u-RE-thral):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to across or through the urethra.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10810"><span class="glossterm"><b>Transurethral resection of the prostate</b> (tranz-u-RE-thral re-SEK-shun of the PROS-tayt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of portions of prostate gland through the urethra; TURP.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10815"><span class="glossterm"><b>Transverse plane</b> (tranz-VERS playn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Horizontal (cross-sectional) plane dividing the body into upper and lower portions; axial plane.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10820"><span class="glossterm"><b>Trichotillomania</b> (trik-o-til-o-MA-ne-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hair-pulling disorder, the repetitive pulling of one’s own hair; an OCD-related disorder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10825"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tricuspid valve</b> (tri-KUS-pid valv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Valve located between the right atrium and right ventricle of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10830"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tricyclic antidepressants</b> (tri-SIK-lik an-tih-deh-PRES-antz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Group of drugs used to treat severe depression; TCAs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10835"><span class="glossterm"><b>Trigeminal neuralgia</b> (tri-JEM-in-al nur-AL-jah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Flashes of stab-like pain along the trigeminal nerve (fifth cranial nerve). The trigeminal nerve has branches to the eye, upper jaw, and lower jaw.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10840"><span class="glossterm"><b>Triglycerides</b> (tri-GLIS-eh-ridez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fat molecules composed of three parts fatty acids and one part glycerol; chief form of lipids.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10845"><span class="glossterm"><b>Trigone</b> (TRI-gohn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Triangular area in the urinary bladder where the ureters enter and the urethra exits.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="963" id="pagebreak_963"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10850"><span class="glossterm"><b>Trigonitis</b> (tri-go-NI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the trigone of the urinary bladder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10855"><span class="glossterm"><b>Triiodothyronine</b> (tri-i-o-do-THI-ro-neen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the thyroid gland; stimulates body metabolism; T3.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10860"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tubal ligation</b> (TOOB-al li-GA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">A sterilization procedure that blocks the fallopian tubes to prevent fertilization from occurring.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10865"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tube thoracostomy</b> (toob thor-ah-KOS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Flexible, plastic chest tube is passed into the pleural space through an opening in the chest.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10870"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tuberculin test</b> (tu-BER-ku-lin test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Determines past or present exposure to tuberculosis based on a positive skin test.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10875"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tuberculosis</b> (tu-ber-ku-LO-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Infectious disease caused by <i>Mycobacterium tuberculosis.</i> Lungs are usually involved, but other organs may be affected.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10880"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tuning fork test</b> (TU-ning fork test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Test of ear conduction using a vibration source (tuning fork).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10885"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tympanic membrane</b> (tim-PAN-ik MEM-brayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Membrane between the outer and middle ear; eardrum.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10890"><span class="glossterm"><b>Tympanoplasty</b> (tim-pah-no-PLAS-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of the eardrum.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0110"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0110">U</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls10895"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ulcer</b> (UL-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Open sore on the skin or mucous membranes of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10900"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ulcerating tumor</b> (UL-ser-A-ting TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor growth that has open, exposed surfaces resulting from the death of overlying tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10905"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ulcerative colitis</b> (UL-ser-ah-tiv ko-LI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Chronic inflammation of the colon with the presence of ulcers.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10910"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ulna</b> (UL-nah):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of two bones in the lower arm; connects to the wrist on the little finger side.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10915"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ulnar</b> (UL-nar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the ulna.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10920"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ultrasonography</b> (ul-trah-so-NOG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Use of high-frequency sound waves to produce a record or picture of an organ or tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10925"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ultrasound transducer</b> (ul-trah-SOWND tranz-DU-ser):</span> <span class="glossdef">Handheld device that sends and receives ultrasound signals.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10930"><span class="glossterm"><b>Umbilical region</b> (um-BIL-ih-kal RE-jen):</span> <span class="glossdef">Central abdominopelvic region near the navel; umbilical means pertaining to the navel.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10935"><span class="glossterm"><b>Undifferentiated</b> (un-dif-er-EN-she-a-ted):</span> <span class="glossdef">Description of cells or tissues that do not have specialized (“mature”) structures or functions. Undifferentiated cancer cells often grow and spread quickly.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10940"><span class="glossterm"><b>Unilateral</b> (u-nih-LAT-er-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to one side.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10945"><span class="glossterm"><b>Upper gastrointestinal series</b> (UP-er gas-tro-in-TEST-in-al SER-eez):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray images of the esophagus, stomach, and small intestine obtained after administering barium by mouth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10950"><span class="glossterm"><b>Uptake</b> (UP-take):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rate of absorption of a radionuclide into an organ or tissue.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10955"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urea</b> (u-RE-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Major nitrogenous waste in urine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10960"><span class="glossterm"><b>Uremia</b> (u-RE-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Excessive amount of urea and other nitrogenous wastes in the blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10965"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ureter</b> (U-reh-ter):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of two tubes carrying urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10970"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ureteroileostomy</b> (u-re-ter-o-il-e-OS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">New opening of the ureters to a portion of the ileum, removed from its normal location and connected to the outside of the body. It serves as a passageway for urine to leave the body when the urinary bladder is removed.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10975"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ureteroneocystostomy</b> (u-re-ter-o-ne-o-sis-TOS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical transplantation of a ureter to a new site in the urinary bladder. This occurs with a kidney transplant.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10980"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ureteroplasty</b> (u-re-ter-o-PLAS-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of ureter.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10985"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urethra</b> (u-RE-thrah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tube leading from the urinary bladder to the outside of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10990"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urethral stricture</b> (u-RE-thral STRIK-shur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Narrowing of the urethra.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls10995"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urethritis</b> (u-re-THRI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the urethra.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11000"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urethroplasty</b> (u-re-thro-PLAS-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of the urethra.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11005"><span class="glossterm"><b>Uric acid</b> (U-rikacid):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nitrogenous waste formed when proteins are used in cells. It is excreted by the kidneys in urine.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="964" id="pagebreak_964"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11010"><span class="glossterm"><b>Uric acid test</b> (U-rik AS-id test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measurement of uric acid in serum; high levels are associated with gouty arthritis.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11015"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urinalysis</b> (u-rin-AL-ih-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Series of tests to evaluate the composition of urine. It includes tests to determine color, appearance, sugar, bacteria, and protein in urine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11020"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urinary bladder</b> (U-rin-ar-e BLAD-er):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hollow, muscular sac that holds and stores urine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11025"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urinary catheterization</b> (U-rin-ar-e kath-et-er-ih-ZA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Passage of a catheter into the urinary bladder for temporary or permanent drainage of urine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11030"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urinary incontinence</b> (U-rin-ar-e in-KON-tin-entz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Involuntary passage of urine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11035"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urinary retention</b> (U-rin-ar-ere-TEN-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inability to pass urine, which is held back in the urinary bladder.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11040"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urination</b> (u-rin-A-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Process of expelling urine; voiding; micturition.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11045"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urography</b> (u-ROG-rah-fe):</span> <span class="glossdef">Taking x-ray images of the urinary tract after injecting contrast.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11050"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urologist</b> (u-ROL-o-gist):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specialist in the study of the urinary tract. Physician specializing in operating on the urinary tract in males and females and on the reproductive tract in males.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11055"><span class="glossterm"><b>Urticaria</b> (ur-tih-KA-re-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Acute allergic reaction in which red, round wheals develop on the skin; hives.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11060"><span class="glossterm"><b>Uterine prolapse</b> (U-ter-ine PRO-laps):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sagging or drooping of the uterus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11065"><span class="glossterm"><b>Uterus</b> (U-ter-us):</span> <span class="glossdef">Muscular organ in a female that holds the embryo/fetus as it develops; womb.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11070"><span class="glossterm"><b>Uveitis</b> (u-ve-I-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the uvea, which is the vascular layer of the eye (including the iris, choroid, and ciliary body).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11075"><span class="glossterm"><b>Uvula</b> (U-vu-lah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Soft tissue hanging from the middle of the soft palate, at the back of the mouth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11080"><span class="glossterm"><b>Uvulectomy</b> (u-vu-LEK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal (excision) of the uvula.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0115"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0115">V</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls11085"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vaccination</b> (vak-sih-NA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Exposure of an individual to a foreign protein (antigen) that provokes an immune response. It is a type of acquired immunity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11090"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vaccine</b> (vak-SEEN):</span> <span class="glossdef">Weakened or dead antigen is administered to induce production of antibodies resulting in immunity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11095"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vagal</b> (VA-gal):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the vagus nerve.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11100"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vagina</b> (vah-JI-nah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Muscular, mucosal canal extending from the uterus and the cervix to the exterior of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11105"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vaginal orifice</b> (VAH-jih-nal OR-ih-fis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Opening of the vagina to the exterior of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11110"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vaginitis</b> (vah-jih-NI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the vagina.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11115"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vagus nerve</b> (VA-gus nerv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tenth cranial nerve with branches to the chest and abdominal organs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11120"><span class="glossterm"><b>Valve</b> (valv):</span> <span class="glossdef">Structure in a vein or in the heart that temporarily closes an opening so that blood flows in the proper direction.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11125"><span class="glossterm"><b>Valvotomy</b> (val-VOT-o-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of a valve.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11130"><span class="glossterm"><b>Valvuloplasty</b> (val-vu-lo-PLAS-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of a valve.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11135"><span class="glossterm"><b>Varicella</b> (var-ih-SEL-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Exanthematous viral disease marked by itchy red rash (herpes zoster) that develops into blisters and pustules and then scabs; chicken pox.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11140"><span class="glossterm"><b>Varicocele</b> (VAR-ih-ko-seel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Enlarged, dilated veins near a testicle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11145"><span class="glossterm"><b>Varicose veins</b> (VAR-ih-kos vaynz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Swollen, twisted veins, often occurring in the legs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11150"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vas deferens</b> (vas DEF-er-enz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Narrow tube (one on each side) that carries sperm from the epididymis toward the urethra.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11155"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vascular</b> (VAS-ku-lar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to blood vessels.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11160"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vasectomy</b> (vas-EK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Bilateral surgical removal of a part of the vas deferens; male sterilization.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11165"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vasoconstriction</b> (vaz-o-kon-STRIK-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Narrowing of a blood vessel.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="965" id="pagebreak_965"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11170"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vasodilation</b> (vaz-o-di-LA-shun):</span> <span class="glossdef">Widening of a blood vessel; vasodilatation.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11175"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vasodilator</b> (vaz-o-DI-la-tor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Drug that widens blood vessels.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11180"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vasopressin</b> (vaz-o-PRES-in):</span> <span class="glossdef">Hormone secreted by the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland; stimulates the kidneys to reabsorb water. Also called antidiuretic hormone, or ADH.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11185"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vasovasostomy</b> (vas-o-vas-OS-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Rejoining the cut ends of the vas deferens to restore male fertility; reversal of vasectomy.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11190"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vegetations</b> (vej-eh-TA-shunz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Collections of clotted material that accumulate on endocardium and valves of the heart in conditions such as endocarditis and rheumatic heart disease.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11195"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vein</b> (vayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Thin-walled blood vessel that carries oxygen-poor (deoxygenated) blood from body tissues back to the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11200"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vena cava; <i>pl.</i> venae cavae</b> (VE-nah KA-vah; VE-ne KA-ve):</span> <span class="glossdef">Largest vein in the body. Venae cavae (inferior and superior) return blood to the heart from the body tissues.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11205"><span class="glossterm"><b>Venipuncture</b> (ve-nih-PUNK-chur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Incision of a vein to remove blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11210"><span class="glossterm"><b>Venous</b> (VE-nus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to a vein.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11215"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ventilation-perfusion scan</b> (ven-tih-LA-shun per-FU-zhun scan):</span> <span class="glossdef">Nuclear medicine lung scan using radioactive material to evaluate air flow (ventilation) and blood flow (perfusion) in the lungs; V/Q scan.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11220"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ventral</b> (VEN-tral):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the front or anterior portion of the body.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11225"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ventricle</b> (VEN-trih-kel):</span> <span class="glossdef">One of two lower chambers of the heart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11230"><span class="glossterm"><b>Ventricles of the brain</b> (VEN-trih-kulz of the brayn):</span> <span class="glossdef">Canals in the brain that contain cerebrospinal fluid.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11235"><span class="glossterm"><b>Venule</b> (VEN-ule):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small vein.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11240"><span class="glossterm"><b>Verruca; <i>p</i>. verrucae</b> (veh-RU-kah; veh-RU-ke):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small benign growth (wart) in the skin; caused by a virus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11245"><span class="glossterm"><b>Verrucous tumor</b> (veh-RU-kus TU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Tumor whose growth pattern resembles that of a wart.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11250"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vertebra</b> (VER-teh-brah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Single backbone; individual segment of the spine.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11255"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vertebrae</b> (VER-teh-bray):</span> <span class="glossdef">Backbones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11260"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vertebral</b> (ver-TE-bral):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to backbones.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11265"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vertebroplasty</b> (ver-TE-bro-plas-te):</span> <span class="glossdef">Surgical repair of a vertebra.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11270"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vertigo</b> (VER-tih-go):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sensation of irregular or whirling motion either of oneself or of external objects.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11275"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vesicle</b> (VES-ih-kl):</span> <span class="glossdef">Small collection of clear fluid (serum); blister.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11280"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vesicoureteral reflux</b> (ves-ik-o-u-RE-ter-al RE-fluks):</span> <span class="glossdef">Backflow of urine from the urinary bladder to the ureters.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11285"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vestibule</b> (VES-tib-ule):</span> <span class="glossdef">Central cavity of the labyrinth in the inner ear; connecting the cochlea and semicircular canals.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11290"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vestibulocochlear</b> (ves-tib-u-lo-KO-kle-ar):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to the vestibule and cochlea of the inner ear.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11295"><span class="glossterm"><b>Villi</b> (VIL-i):</span> <span class="glossdef">Microscopic projections in the wall of the small intestine that absorb nutrients into the bloodstream.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11300"><span class="glossterm"><b>Viral hepatitis</b> (VI-ral heh-pah-TI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the liver caused by a virus.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11305"><span class="glossterm"><b>Viral load test</b> (VI-ral LOAD test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Measures the amount of HIV in the bloodstream.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11310"><span class="glossterm"><b>Viral oncogenes</b> (VI-ral ONK-o-jenz):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pieces of DNA from viruses that infect a normal cell and cause it to become malignant.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11315"><span class="glossterm"><b>Virus</b> (VI-rus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Infectious agent that reproduces by entering a host cell and using the host’s genetic material to make copies of itself.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11320"><span class="glossterm"><b>Viscera</b> (VIS-er-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Internal organs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11325"><span class="glossterm"><b>Visceral</b> (VIS-er-al):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pertaining to internal organs.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11330"><span class="glossterm"><b>Visceral muscle</b> (VIS-er-al MUS-el):</span> <span class="glossdef">Muscle that lines the walls of internal organs; smooth, involuntary muscle.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11335"><span class="glossterm"><b>Visceral pleura</b> (VIS-er-al PLUR-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Innermost membrane of the pleura, lying closest to the lung tissue itself.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11340"><span class="glossterm"><b>Visual acuity test</b> (VIZ-u-al ah-KYOO-ih-te test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Eye exam that measures clarity of vision.</span><div><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="966" id="pagebreak_966"/></div></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11345"><span class="glossterm"><b>Visual field test</b> (VIZ-u-al field test):</span> <span class="glossdef">Eye examination that measures the entire scope of vision (peripheral and central).</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11350"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vitamin</b> (VI-ta-min):</span> <span class="glossdef">Substance found in foods and essential in small quantities for growth and good health.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11355"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vitiligo</b> (vit-ih-LI-go):</span> <span class="glossdef">Patches of white, unpigmented skin surrounded by areas of normal skin; leukoderma.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11360"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vitrectomy</b> (vi-TREK-to-me):</span> <span class="glossdef">Removal of vitreous humor.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11365"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vitreous humor</b> (VIT-re-us HU-mor):</span> <span class="glossdef">Soft, jelly-like material behind the lens in the vitreous chamber; helps maintain the shape of the eyeball.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11370"><span class="glossterm"><b>Voiding</b> (VOY-ding):</span> <span class="glossdef">Urination.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11375"><span class="glossterm"><b>Voiding cystourethrogram</b> (VOY-ding sis-to-u-RE-thro-gram):</span> <span class="glossdef">X-ray record of the urinary bladder and urethra taken while patient is urinating and after contrast material is injected retrograde through the urethra.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11380"><span class="glossterm"><b>Volvulus</b> (VOL-vu-lus):</span> <span class="glossdef">Twisting of the intestine on itself.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11385"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vomer</b> (VO-mer):</span> <span class="glossdef">Thin plate of bone that forms part of the nasal septum, which is the wall separating the nostrils.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11390"><span class="glossterm"><b>Voyeuristic disorder</b> (voy-yer-IS-tik dis-OR-der):</span> <span class="glossdef">Sexual excitement is achieved by spying on people who are naked, undressing, or engaged in sexual activity.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11395"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vulva</b> (VUL-vah):</span> <span class="glossdef">External genitalia of the female.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11400"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vulvodynia</b> (vul-vo-DIN-e-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Pain in the female genitalia.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11405"><span class="glossterm"><b>Vulvovaginitis</b> (vul-vo-vah-jah-NI-tis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Inflammation of the vulva and vagina.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0120"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0120">W</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls11410"><span class="glossterm"><b>Wasting syndrome</b> (WAYST-ing SIN-drohm):</span> <span class="glossdef">Weight loss and decrease in muscle strength, appetite, and mental activity that occurs with AIDS.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11415"><span class="glossterm"><b>Western blot</b> (WES-tern blot):</span> <span class="glossdef">Specific test to detect presence of anti-HIV antibodies in the bloodstream.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11420"><span class="glossterm"><b>Wheal</b> (weel):</span> <span class="glossdef">Smooth, edematous (swollen): papule or plaque that is centrally redder than the surrounding skin; often accompanied by itching.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11425"><span class="glossterm"><b>Wheezes</b> (WEEZ-ez):</span> <span class="glossdef">Continuous high-pitched whistling sounds produced during breathing.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11430"><span class="glossterm"><b>White blood cell count</b> (wite blood sel kownt):</span> <span class="glossdef">Number of leukocytes per cubic millimeter or microliter of blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11435"><span class="glossterm"><b>White blood cell differential</b> (wite blood sel dif-er-EN-shul):</span> <span class="glossdef">Percentages of different types of leukocytes in the blood.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11440"><span class="glossterm"><b>Wilms tumor</b> (wilmz TU-mur):</span> <span class="glossdef">Malignant neoplasm (tumor) of the kidney that occurs in childhood.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0125"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0125">X</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls11445"><span class="glossterm"><b>Xanthoma</b> (zan-THO-mah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Soft, yellowish, round nodule found on the eyelids; xanthelasma.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11450"><span class="glossterm"><b>Xenophobia</b> (zen-o-FO-be-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fear of strangers.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11455"><span class="glossterm"><b>Xerophthalmia</b> (zer-of-THAL-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Condition of excessive dryness of the eye.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11460"><span class="glossterm"><b>Xerosis</b> (zer-O-sis):</span> <span class="glossdef">Very dry skin.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11465"><span class="glossterm"><b>Xerostomia</b> (zer-o-STO-me-ah):</span> <span class="glossdef">Dryness of the mouth.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11470"><span class="glossterm"><b>Xiphoid process</b> (ZIF-oyd PROS-es):</span> <span class="glossdef">Lower, narrow portion of the sternum (breastbone).</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0130"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0130">Y</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls11475"><span class="glossterm"><b>Yellow bone marrow</b> (YEL-o bone MAH-ro):</span> <span class="glossdef">Fatty tissue found in the medullary cavity (shaft) of most adult long bones.</span></li></ul></section><section><a id="gs0135"/><h2 class="glossdiv" id="st0135">Z</h2><ul><li class="gloss" id="gls11480"><span class="glossterm"><b>Zygomatic bones</b> (zi-go-MAT-ik bones):</span> <span class="glossdef">Cheekbones of the face.</span></li><li class="gloss" id="gls11485"><span class="glossterm"><b>Zygote</b> (ZI-gote):</span> <span class="glossdef">Stage in prenatal development from fertilization and implantation to 2 weeks.</span></li></ul></section></body></html>